[--- Page 255 ---]
CONTINUALFLAME
CONTAGION
Level 2 Evocation (Cleric, Druid,Wizard)
Level 5 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time:
Action
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M (rubydustworth 50 + GP, which
Component:V,S
the spell consumes)
Duration: 7 days
Duration:
 Until dispelled
Your touch inflicts a magical contagion. The target
A flame springs froman objectthatyou touch
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or. Th
effect casts Bright Light in a 2O -foot radius and e
takelld8Necrotic damage and have the Poisoned
condition. Also, choose one ability when you castDim Light foranadditional20feet. It looks like a
thespell. While Poisoned, the target has Disadvan-regular flame ,butitcreates noheat andconsumes
tage on saving throws made with the chosen ability.no fuel. The flamecanbecoveredorhidden butnot
smotheredorquenched.
The target must repeat the saving throw at the
endofeachofitsturnsuntil it gets three successes
orfailures. If the target succeeds on threeofthese
CONTROLWATER
saves, the spell ends on the target. If the target fails
Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
threeofthe saves, the spell lasts for 7 days on it.
Whenever the Poisoned target receives an effect
Casting Time: Action
thatwould end the Poisoned condition, the target
Range: 300 feet
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, 
or the
Components:V,S,M(amixtureofwater and dust)
Poisoned condition doesn't end on it.
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
,..-·-
Until the spell ends, youcontrol any waterinside an
area you choose
CONTINGENCYthatis a Cube up to 100feet on a
side, using one
of thefollowing effects. As a Magic
Level 6 Abjuration (Wizard)
action onyour laterturns,you can repeat the
same
Casting Time: 10 minutes
effectorchoose a different 
one.
Range: Self
Flood. You causethewaterlevelofallstanding
Components:V,S,M(agem-encrusted statuette of
waterin thearea to riseby asmuchas20feet. If
yourself worth 1,500+GP)
you choose
anarea in a largebodyofwater, you
Duration:
 10 days
instead create 
a 2O-foot tall wavethattravels from
Choose a spellof
level 5 or lower that you can cast,
one sideof the area to the other and thencrashes.
thathas a casting time 
of an action, and that can
Any Hugeorsmaller vehicles inthewave's path
targetyou. You cast that 
spell-called the contin-
are carried with itto theotherside.Any Hugeor
gent spell-as part of casting
 Contingency, expendingsmaller vehicles
struck by the wave have a 25 per-
spell slots for both, 
but the contingent spell doesn'tcent chanceofcapsizing.
come into effect. Instead, it takes effect when a cer-
Thewaterlevel remains elevated until thespell
tain trigger occurs. You describe that trigger when
endsoryou choose a differenteffect. If this effect
you cast the two spells. For example, a Contingency
produced a wave, the waverepeats on the startof
cast with Water Breathing might stipulate that Water
your nextturnwhilethe flood effectlasts.
Breathing comes into effect when you are engulfed
Part Water.
 Youpartwater inthe area andcre-
in water ora similar liquid.
ate a trench. The t rench extends across thespell's
The contingent spell takes effect immediately af-
area, and the separatedwater forms a wall to either
ter the trigger occurs for the first time, whether 
orside. The trench remai ns unt ilthespell ends or you
not you want it to, and then Contingency ends.choose a differe
nteffect.The water thenslowly fills
The contingent spell takes effect only on you, even
in the trench over the course of the next round un-
ifit can normally target others. You can use onlytil t he nor mal waterlevel isrestor ed.
one Contingency spell at a time. If you cast this spell
Redirect Flow. You cause flowing w ater in the area
again, the effect of another Contingency spell on youto move in a direction you choose, even if the wa-
ends. Also, Contingency ends on you if its materialter has to
flow over obstacles, up w alls, or in other
component is ever not on your person.unlikely directions. T he water in the area moves as
you direct it, but once it
 move5 beyon d the spell's
area, it resumes its flow ha ·ed on the terrain. The
water continues to
 move in the direction you chose
until the spell ends or you choose a differ ent effect.
2'i6 CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

[--- Page 256 ---]
Whirlpool.
 You cause a whirlpool to form 
in the
DM.Youcan change precipitation, temperature,
centerof the area, 
which mustbe at least
SOfeetand wind. It takes ld4
 x10minutes for the new
square and 25 feet deep. 
The whirlpool lasts until
conditions to take effect. Once they do so, you 
can
you choose a different 
effectorthe spell ends. The
change the conditions again. When the spell ends,
whirlpool is 5 feetwide 
at the base, up to50feetthe weather gradually returns to normal.
wide 
at the top,and25 feet tall. 
Any creature in theWhen you change the weather conditions, find
water 
andwithin25 feetofthe whirlpool
ispulleda current condition on the following tables and
10 feettoward
it.Whenacreatureenters the whirl-change its stage 
by one, up or down. When chang-
pool for 
the first time onaturn oring the wind, you can change its direction.
ends its turn
there, it makes 
aStrengthsaving throw
. On a failed
save, thecreature PRECIPITATION
takes 2d8 Bludgeoning damage.
On a successful save,
the creaturetakes half as
Stage
Condition
much damage. A
creaturecan swim away from
l Clear
the whirlpool 
only if it first takes an action to pull
2 Light clouds
away and succeeds
onaStrength
(Athletics) check
againstyour3 Overcast or ground fog
spell save DC.
4Rain,hail, or snow
5 Torrential rain, driving hail, or blizzard
CONTROL
WE ATHER
Level
8 Transmutation (Cleric, 
Druid, Wizard)
TEMPERATURE
WIND
Casting Time: 10 m inutes
Range: SelfCondition
Stage  Stage Condition
Components: 
V, S,M (burning 
incense)
l Heat wave l Calm
Duration: Concen tra tion 
, up to 8 hours
2 Hot 2 Moderate wind
You ta ke cont rol 
of the weather within 5 miles of
3 Warm 3 Strong wind
you for the
 du ntlion. You must be outdoors to cast
4 Cool 4 
Gale
this spell, 
and it ct 1ds early if you go indoors.
5Cold 5 
When you Storm
 c;1.-.1· t he spell, you change the current
weather con dit': ,f' s, w hich are determined by the
6 Freezing
CHA PTER 7 I SPELLS 
257

[--- Page 257 ---]
CREATEORDESTROY 'WAT E R
CORDONOF ARROWS
Level 1 Transmuta tion(Cle1·ic, 
Druid)
Level 2 Transmutation (Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Casting Time: Action
Range:30 feet
Range:Touch
Components:V,S, M{amixofwater and sand)
Components:V,S,M(anornamental braid)
Duration: Instantaneous
Duration: 8 hours
You do oneof thefollowing:
Youtouch up to four nonmagical Arrows or Bolts
and plant them in the ground in your space. Until
CreateWater.Youcreate up to 10 gallons of clean
thespell ends, the ammunition can't be physically
water within rangeinan open
container.Alter-
uprooted, and whenever a creature other than you
natively,the waterfalls asrainin a30-footCube
enters a space within30feetofthe ammunition for
within range,extinguishing exposedflames there.
the first time on aturnorends itsturnthere, one
Destroy Water.Youdestroyup to10 gallonsof
pieceofammunition flies up to strike it. The crea-
water
inanopencontainer withinrange. Alter-
turemust succeed on a Dexterity saving throw
or
natively, youdestroyfog in a30-footCube within
take 2d4 Piercing damage. The pieceofammunition
range.
isthendestroyed. The spell ends when none of the
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. 
Youcreate orde-
ammunition remains planted in the ground.
stroy10 additional gallonsofwater,or thesizeof
Whenyou cast this spell, you can designate any
the Cube increases
by5 feet, foreachspell slot level
creatures you choose, and the spell ignores them.
above1.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The amount of am-
munitionthatcan be affected increases by two for
each spell slot level above 2.
CREATE UNDEAD
-----------·-
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock ,Wizard)
COUNTERSPELL
Casting Time: l minute
Level 3 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Range:l O feet
Components: V,S,M (one 150+ GPblack onyx stone
Casting Time: Reaction, whichyoutake whenyousee
for each corpse)
a creature within 60 feet 
of yourself casting a spell
Duration: Instantaneous
with Verbal, Somatic, or Material components
Range: 60 feet
You can cast 
this spellonlyat night. Choose up
Components: S
to three cor pses
ofMediumorSmall Humanoids
Duration: Instantaneous
within range. Each 
one becomes a Ghoulunder
your control(see t he
You  Monster Manual for itsstat
attempt to interrupt a creature in the process
block).
ofcasting 
a spell. The creature makes a Constitu-
As a Bonus Action on each
tion savingof your turns,you can
thr ow. On a failed save, the spell dissi-
mentally command any creatur e
you animated with
pateswith no effect, and the action, Bonus Action,
this spell if the creatureiswith in 120 
feet of you (if
orReaction used to cast it is wasted. If that spell
you control multiple creatures, you can
command
was cast with a spell slot, the slot isn't expended.
any of them at the same time
, issuing t he same com-
mand to them). You decidewhataction thecreature
will take and 
CREATE FOOD AND WATERwhere it will moveonits next turn, or
you can issue a general command, such as to guard
Level 3 Conjuration (Cleric,Paladin)
a particular place. If you issue no commands, the
Casting Time: Action
creature takes the Dodge action andmoves only to
Range: 30 feet
avoid harm. Once givenan order
, the creature con-
Components: V, S
tinues to foll ow the order u ntil itstask is complete.
Duration: Instantaneous
The creature is under you r control for 24hours,
You create 45 pounds 
of food and 30 gallons ofafter which it stops obe
ying any command you've
fresh water on the ground or in containers within
given it. To maintain control of t he creature for
range-both useful in fending off the hazards of
another 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the
malnutrition and dehydration. The food is bland butcreature before 
the currcftt·24-hour period ends.
nourishing and looks like a food of your choice, andThis use of the spell rca ~~,'!ri. your control over up
1 
the water is clean. The food spoils after 24 hours ifto three creatures you
 h :.1v·-::.;·dmated with this spell
uneaten.rather than animating ,w, -;,. cs.
258 CHAPTER 7
 I SPELLS

[--- Page 258 ---]
Usinu a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level 7
each of its turns to make a melee attack against a
spell slot, you ca n animate or reassert control over
creature other than itself that you mentally choose.
four Ghouls . If yo u use a level 8 spell slot, you can
The target can act normally on its turn if you
anim ate or i·easse rt control over five Ghouls or two
choose no creature or if no creature is within its
Ghasts or W ights. If you use a level 9 spell slot, you
reach. The target repeats the save at the end of each
can anim ate or r eassert control over six Ghouls,
of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a success.
three Ghasts or Wights, or two Mummies. See the
On your later turns, you must take the Magic ac-
Monster Manua l for these stat blocks.
tion to maintain control of the target, or the spell
ends.
CREATION
Level 5 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard)
CRUSADER'S MANTLE
Level 3 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: l minute
Range: 30 feet
Casting Time: Action
Components: V, S, M (a pa intbrush)
Range: Self
Duration: Specia l
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You pull wisps of shadow material from the Shad-
owfell to create an object within range. It is either
You radiate a magical aura in a 30-foot Emanation.
an object of vegetable matter (soft goods, rope,
While in the aura, you and your allies each deal
wood, and the like) or mineral matter (stone, crys-
an extra ld4 Radiant damage when hitting with a
tal, metal, and the like). The object must be no
weapon or an Unarmed Strike.
larger than a 5-foot Cube, and the object must be of
a form and material that you have seen.
The spell's duration depends on the object's ma-CURE WOUNDS
terial , as shown in the Materials table. If the objectLevel 1Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
is composed of multiple materials, use the shortest
Casting Time: Action
duration. Using any object created by this spell as
Range:Touch
another spell's Material component causes the other
Components: V, S
spell to fail.
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature you touch regains a number of Hit
MATERIALS
Points equal to 2d8 plus your spellcasting ability
Duration
Material
modifier.
24 hours
Vegetable matter
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
12 hours
Stone or crystalcreases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 1.
l hour
Precious metals
Gems 10 minutes
DANCI NG LIGHTS
Adamantine or mithral l minute
Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cube increases
Range: 120 feet
by 5 fee t fo r each spell slot level above 5.
Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
CROWN O F MA DN ESS
You create up to four torch-size lights within range,
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
making them appear as torches, lanterns, or glow-
Casting Time: Action
ing orbs that hover for the duration. Alternatively,
Range: 120 fe e tyou combine the four lights into one glowing Me-
Components: V, Sdium form that is vaguely humanlike. Whichever
Duration: Concentra tio n, up to l minute
form you choose, each light sheds Dim Light in a
10-foot radius.
One creatu re tha t you can see within range must
As a Bonus Action, you can move the lights up
succeed on n Wisdom saving throw or have the
to 60 feet to a space within range. A light must be
Charm ed c:undition for the duration. The creature
within 20 feet of another light created by this spell,
succeeds auto 1atica lly if it isn't Humanoid.
and a light vanishes if it exceeds the spell's range.
A spectral r i· lW n appears on the Charmed target's
head, and it r,· l, 5 1: u se its action before moving on
CHAPT ER 7 I SPEL LS 259

[--- Page 259 ---]
VISION
DARK 
DARKNESS
• Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Range,·, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Level 2 Evocation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Range: 60 feet
carrot)
M (bat fur and a pieceofcoal)Components:V,S,M(adried 
Components:V,
10minutesDuration: 8 hours
Duration: Concentration, up to
you touch has
For the duration, magical Darkness spreads from aFor the duration, a willingcreature
of150 feet.
point within range andfilJsa15-foot-radius Sphere.Darkvision with a range
Darkvision can't see through it, and nonmagical
light can't ilJuminate it.
DAYLIGHT
Alternatively, you cast the spell on an object that
Level 3 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
isn't being worn or carried, causing the Darkness
Sorcerer)
tofilla 15-foot Emanation originating from that
object. Covering that object with something opaque,
Casting Time: Action
or helm, blocks the Darkness.
such as a bowl 
Range: 60 feet
Ifany of this spell's area overlaps with an area of
Components:V,S
Bright Light or Dim Light created by a spell of level
Duration: l hour
is dispelled.
2 or lower, that other spell 
For the duration, sunl ight spreads from a point
60-fo ot-radius Sphere. The
within range and fills a 
sunlight's area is Bright Light and sheds Dim Light
for an additional 60 feet.
 CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS
260

[--- Page 260 ---]
Altern ati
vely,youcas tthespellonanobjectthat
.'tbeing \vorn orcarried,
causing thesunlight to
DEMIPLANE
,sn • • • t · f
thb
filla60-footEmanat1?non~ma
mgr?mato -
Level 8 Conjuration(Sorcerer,Warlock, Wizard)
. t Coveri ngthatobJectwith
somethingopaque,
Jee • h1·h
Casting Time: 
Action
abowlorhelm, blockst esun1gt.
as 
1 
sue 1 .
Range:60 feet
If
anyofthis spell'sareaoverlapswithan areaof
Components: 
S
Darknesscreatedbya spelloflevel 3orlower,that
Duration: l hour
otherspell is dispelled.
You create a shadowy Mediumdoor ona flat solid
surfacethatyou can see within range. Thisdoor
D EATHWARD
can be opened and closed, and it leadstoa demi-
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
planethatisan empty room30feet in each dimen-
Casting Time: Actionsion, madeofwood or stone (your choice).
Range:TouchWhenthe spell ends, the door vanishes,and any
Components:V,Sobjects inside the demiplane remain there. Any
Duration: 8hourscreatures inside also remain unlessthey opt to be
shunted through the door as it vanishes, 
landing
Youtouchacreatureandgrant
itameasureofpro-
with the Prone condition in the unoccupied spaces
tectionfrom death.Thefirsttime thetargetwould
closest to the door's former space.
droptoOHitPoints beforethespell 
ends,the target
Each time you cast this spell, you
can create a
insteaddrops to1HitPoint,and thespell ends.
new demiplane or connect the shadowy door to
Jfthespell is still in effectwhenthe target
is sub-
a demiplane you created with a previous
casting
jected toaneffectthatwouldki!l itinstantly
':"ith-
of this spell. Additionally, if you know thenature
out dealing damage,thateffect1snegated against
and contents of a demiplane created by a
castingof
thetarget,and thespell ends.
this spell by another creature, youcan connect the
shadowy door to that 
demiplane instead.
D E LAYED BLA STFIREBALL
Level 7 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
D ESTRUCTIVE WAVE
CastingTime:Action
Level 5 Evocation(Paladin)
Range:
 150 feet
Casting Time: Action
Components:
V,S, M(aballofbat guano and sulfur)
Range: Self
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Abeamofyellow lightflashes from you, then con-
densesatachosen point withinrange as a glowing
Destructive energy ripples 
outward from you in a
bead forthe duration. Whenthespell ends, the bead
30-foot Emanation. Each creature you choose 
in
explodes,and eachcreaturein a20-foot-radius
the Emanation makes a Constitution saving throw.
Sphere centeredon thatpoint makes a Dexterity
On a failed save, a target takes Sd6Thunder damage
savingthrow. Acreaturetakes Fire damage equal
and Sd6 Radiant or Necrotic damage (your choice)
to the total accumula ted damage ona failed save or
and has the Prone condition. On a successful save, a
hal f asmuch damage ona successful one.
target takes half as much damage only
.
T he spell's base damageis 12d6, a nd the damage
increases by ld6 whenever your turn
ends and the
spellhasn't ended.
DETECT Ev1LA N D Goon
If a creat uret
ouches the glowing bead before the
Level 1Divination(Cleric, Paladin)
spell ends, t h a tcreaturemakes a Dexterity saving
Casting Time: Action
throw.Ona fa iled save, the spell ends, causing the
Range: Self
bead to explode. Ona successful save, the creature
Components: V, S
can throwthe
bead up to40feet. If the thrown
Duration:
 Concentration, up to 10 minutes
bead enters acreat ure's space or collides with a
solid obj ect, the spell ends, and the bead explodes.
For the duration, you sense the location of any Ab-
W hen the head explodes, flammable objects in theerration, Celestial, Elemental, Fey, Fiend, or Undead
explosion t h at a1·en't being worn or carried startwithin 
30 feet of yourself. You also sense whether
burn ing.the Hallow spell is active there and, if so, where.
Using a Highcr-1.,evel Spell Slot. The base damageThe spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or
increases b~,1d6 fo r each spell slot level above 7.
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
C_H a 
7- I S££LL

[--- Page 261 ---]
onyournex t ~-•t ,1yo u
As a Magic action
 
. • ca n try
to pr obe deeperm tothetarget's 1 . i, 1d.Ifyou prob
DETECTMAGIC
es aWisdo m•·avingt hr e
deeper,thetargetma k
Level1 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Dru id, Paladin, Ranger,0
cernthetaro-et's reas':·
Ona failed save,you dis
0 
. oning
Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
emotions,and something t hatloom s la rge in its '
 Action or Ritual
Casting Time:
mind(such as aworry, love,orhate) On a sue
• cess-
Range:Self
ful save,thespellend s. Eitherway, t he ta rget k
nows
. . . . 
 V, S
Components:
h b 
tatyou a r e prom g mtoitsmmd,anduntilyou
Duration: Concentration,upto10minutes
away from t he target's mind
shiftyourat tention 
to make. an
the ta rgetca n takeanactio n o n itst urn
ofmagical
For the duration, you sense the presence
Intelligence (Arcan a)checkagainstyou r spell save
effects within30feetofyourself. If you sense such
DC ,endingthe spell on a success.
effects, you can take the Magic action to see a faint
aura around any visible creatureorobject inthe
bears the magic, and if an effect was cre-
areathat
DIMENS IONDOOR
ofmagic.
ated by a spell, you learn the spell's school
Wizard)
Level 4 Co njura t ion(Ba ,·d. S orcerer, W arlock,
The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone,dirt,or
wood; 1 inchofmetal;ora thin sheet of lead.
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V
DETECTPOISONAND DISEASE
Duration: Instanta neous
Level 1 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
portto a locationwithinrange. You arrive
You tele
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
at exactly t he spotdes ired . It ca nbea place you can
Range:Self
oneyou candescribe
see, one youcanv isual ize,or
Components:V,S,M(ayewleaf)
by statingdistanceand direction,suchas "200feet
minutes
Duration: Concentration,upto10
straight downward"or"300feet upwar d to the
northwest ata45-degreeangle."
For the duration, you sense the locationofpoisons,
willing creature.The
poisonousorvenomous creatures, and magicalYou can alsoteleport one 
contagions within 30feet of yourself. You sense thecreature mustbewithin5feetofyou whenyou
kindofpoison, creature,orcontagion in each case.teleport,anditteleportstoaspace within5 feet of
oryour destination space.
The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt,
oflead.
wood; 1 inchofmetal; or a thin sheetIf you ,the othercreature,or bothwouldarrive in
a space occupiedbyacreature orcompletelyfilled
trav-
by oneormoreobjects,youand any creature
DETECT THOUGHTS
eling w ithyoueachta ke4d6Force damage, and the
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
teleportationfa ils.
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
DISGUISE SELF
Components:V,S,M(1Copper Piece)
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, So rcerer, Wizard)
up to l minute
Duration: Concentration, 
Casting Time: Action
You activate one of the effects below. Until the spell
Range: Self
ends, you can activate either effect as a Magic ac-
Components: V, S
tion on your later turns.
Duration: l hour
Sense Thoughts. You sense the presence of
that belong to
t houghts within30feet of yourself You makeyourself-including yourclothing, armor,
creatu res that know languages or are telepathic.weapons, and otherbelongings on your person-
that athespell ends. Youcan seem
You don't read the t houghts, but you know look different until 
t hinking creatureis present.1 footshorter ortallera nd can appear heavier or
foot of stone, dir t, ormust adopta form that has the same
The spell is blocked by 1 lighter. You 
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.basicarrangement of limbs a s you have. Otherwise,
the extent of the illusion is up to you.
Read Thoughts. Target one creature you can see
wit hin 30 feet of yourself or one creature withinThe changeswrought by t his spell fail to hold
example, if you use
30 feet of yourself that you detected with the Senseup to physical inspection. For 
tar-this spell to add a hat 1:0 yo ur outfit, objects pass
Thoughts option. You learn what is most on the 
it would
get's mind right now. If the target doesn't know anythrough the hat, and a·1/a ne who touches 
feel nothing.
languages and isn't telepathic, you learn nothing.
CHAPTER 7 SPELLS

[--- Page 262 ---]
thatyou aredisguised, a creature must
Todiscern
action to inspect your appearance
take the Study
D1sPELEvILAND Goon
and succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check
Level5 Abjuration(Cleric, Paladin)
againstyourspell save DC.
CastingTime:Action
Range:Self
V,S,M (powdered silver and iron)
Components:
D ISINT EGRATE
Duration:Concentration,upto l minute
Level6 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
For the duration, Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends,
Casting Time: Action
and Undead have Disadvantage on attack rolls
Range:60 feet
against you.Youcan end the spell early by using ei-
Components:V,S, M(alodestone and dust)
ther of the following special functions.
Duration: Instantaneous
Break Enchantment. As a Magic action, you touch
Youlaunch a green rayat a target you can see
has the Charmed
a creature thatispossessed by or 
within range. The target can be a creature, a non-
or Frightened condition from one or more creatures
magical object,ora creation ofmagical force, such
of the types above. The target is no longer pos-
ed by WallofForce.
as the w all creat
sessed, Charmed, or Frightened by such creatures.
A creature ta rgeted by this spell makes a Dexter-
Dismissal.Asa Magic action, you target one crea-
ity saving th row. On a failed save, the target takes
of
ture you can see within 5 feet of you that has one 
10d6 +40Force damage. If this damage reduces it
the creature types above. The target must succeed
nonmagical itis
to O Hit Points, it and everything 
on a Charisma saving throw or be sent back to its
wearing and carrying are disintegrated into gray
home plane if it isn't there already. If they aren't on
dust. The target can be revived only by a True Resur-
their home plane, Undead are sent to the Shadow-
rectionor a Wish spell.
fell, and Fey are sent to the Feywild.
This spell mii.omatically disintegrates a Large or
of magical
sma ller non rnr; ·ical object or a creation 
fo rce. If su h··, ta rget is Huge or larger, this spell
disi ntegrate:-., . iO-foot-Cube portion of it.
 Spell Slot. The damage in-
Using a Hie):: ,·-Level
creases by~i•·: •u r each spell slot level above 6.
263
CHAPTER 7 I SPEL LS 

[--- Page 263 ---]
target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed
save, it takes 3d6 Psychic damage and must imme-
DISPEL MAGIC
diately use its Reaction, if available, to move as far
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger,
away from you as it can, using the safest route. On a
Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
successful save, the target takes half as much dam-
Casting Time: Action
age only.
Range: 120 feet
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
Components: V, S
creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 1.
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature, object, or magical effect
DIVINATION
within range. Any ongoing spell of level 3 or lower
Level 4 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
on the target ends. For each ongoing spell of level 4
or higher on the target, make an ability check us-
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
ing your spellcasting ability (DC 10 plus that spell's
Range: Self
level). On a successful check, the spell ends.
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 25+ GP, which
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You automatically
the spell consumes)
end a spell on the target if the spell's level is equal to
Duration: Instantaneous
or less than the level of the spell slot you use.
This spell puts you in contact wit h a god or a god's
servants. You ask one question about a specific
goal, event, or activity to occu r w ithin 7 days. The
DISSONANT WHISPERS
DM offers a truthful re ply, wh ich might be a short
Level 1Enchantment (Bard)
phrase or cryptic rhyme. The ~,n ell doesn't account
Casting Time: Action
for circumstances that might change the answer,
Range: 60 fee t
such as the casting of other c;pr.:lls.
Components: V
If you cast the spell more ti 1:>:1 once before finish-
Duration: Instant aneous
ing a Long Rest, there is :l c:111 1• • L l.ive 25 percent
One creature of your choice that you can see withinchance for each casting aft ~•· th e fi rst that you get
range hears a discordant melody in its mind. Theno answer.
i64 CH APTER 7 1 SPELLS

[--- Page 264 ---]
DIVINE FA"✓ OR
DOMINATE BEAST
Level J Tran smu ta tion (Paladin)
Level 4 Enchantment (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Components: V, S
Duration: l minute
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Until the spell ends, your attacks with weapons deal
One Beast you can see within range must succeed
an extra ld4 Radiant damage on a hit.
on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed
condition for the duration. The target has Advan-
tage on the save if you or your allies are fighting it.
DIVINE SMITE
Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats the
Level J Evocation (Paladin)
save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
casting Time: Bonus Action , which you take immedi-
You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar-
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or
get while the two of you are on the same plane of
an Unarmed Strikeexistence. On your turn, you can use this link to
Range: Selfissue commands to the target (no action required),
such as "Attack that creature," "Move over there,"
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneousor "Fetch that object." The target does its best to
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't
The target takes an extra 2d8 Radiant damage from
receive further direction from you, it acts and
the attack. The damage increases by ld8 if the tar-
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
get is a Fiend or an Undead.
You can command the target to take a Reaction
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
but must take your own Reaction to do so.
creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 1.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra-
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 5 (up to
10 minutes), 6 (up to 1 hour), or 7+ (up to 8 hours).
D I VI NE WORD
Level 7 Evocation (Cleric)
DOMINATE MONSTER
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 30 feetLevel 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Components: V
Casting Time: Action
Duration: Instantaneous
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
You utter a word imbued with power from the Up-
Duration: Concentration, up to l hour
per Planes. Each creature of your choice in range
ma kes a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save,
One creature you can see within range must
a target that has 50 Hit Points or fewer suffers an
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the
effect based on its current Hit Points, as shown in
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has
the Divine Word Effects table. Regardless of its Hit
Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fight-
Points, a Celestial, an Elemental, a Fey, or a Fiend
ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats
target that fa ils its save is forced back to its plane of
the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
origin (if it isn't t here already) and can't return to
You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar-
the curr ent plane for 24 hours by any means short
get while the two of you are on the same plane of
of a Wish spell.
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to
issue commands to the target (no action required),
DIVINE WO RD EFFECTS
such as "Attack that creature," "Move over there,"
or "Fetch that object." The target does its best to
Hit Points Effect
obey on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn't
0-20The target dies.
receive further direction from you, it acts and
21 - 30The ta rget has the Blinded, Deafened,
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
and Stunned conditions for l hour.
You can command the target to take a Reaction
31 -40The target has the Blinded and Deaf-
but must take your own Reaction to do so.
uH:d conditions for 10 minutes.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra-
tion can last longer with a level 9 spell slot (up to 8
41 - 50Tl 1c target has the Deafened condition
hours).
:,_r l mi nute.
CHAPT ER 7 I SPELLS 26"

[--- Page 265 ---]
ma rk onthatobject a nd invisiblyin::, i:!.esthe ob-
esapphire. Each tim•!you cast this
ject's name onth
DOMINATE PERSON
sapphi1·e.
spell, youmustuse a d ifferen t
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer~Wizard)
Thereafter, youcanta ke a Magicactionto speak
Casting Time: Actionthe object'snameandcrush t hesapphire. T he ob-
Range: 60feetjectinstantlyappears in yourhandregardlessof
Components:V,Sphysicalorplanar distances,andthe spellends.
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
isholdingorca r r ying theob-
Ifanothercreature
sapphire doesn'ttransportit, but
ject,crushing the 
One Humanoid you can see within range must
where
instead youlearnwhothat creatureisand
orhave the
succeed on a Wisdom savingthrow
that creatureis currentlylocated.
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has
ifyouoryour allies are fight-
Advantage on the save
ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats
DREAM
the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
Wizard)
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Warlock,
Youhave a telepathic link with the Charmed tar-
get while the twoofyou are on the same planeofCasting Time: l minute
existence. On your turn, you can use this link toRange: Special
(ahandfulofsand)
issue commands to the target (no action required),Components: V, S, M
such as "Attackthatcreature," "Move over there,"Duration: 8 hours
or"Fetchthatobject." The target does its best to
acreatureyouknow on thesameplane
Youtarget
obey on its turn. Ifit completes an order and doesn't
ofexistence. Youorawillingcreatureyou touch
receivefurtherdirection from you, it acts and
messenger.
enters atrance statetoactasadream
moves as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
thetrance,the messengeris Incapacitated
While in 
Youcan command the target to take a Reaction
and has a Speedof0 .
your own Reaction to do so.
but must take
If the targetis asleep,the messenger appearsin
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra-
the target'sdreams and can converse withthe tar-
oflevel 6 (up to
tion can last longer with a spell slot
get as long as itremainsasleep,through thespell's
10 minutes), 7 (up to 1 hour),or8+(up to 8 hours).
dream's
duration.The messengercanalsoshape the
environment,creating landscapes, objects,and
otherimages. The messengercanemerge from the
DRAGON'S BREATH
trance atanytime,ending thespell.The targetre-
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
waking.
calls the dream perfectlyupon 
 Time: Bonus Action
Casting
If the targetisawakewhen you cast thespell, the
Range:Touch
messenger knows itand can either end the trance
Components:V,S, M(ahot pepper)
at
(and the spell)or wait forthe targettosleep,
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
the messenger entersits dreams.
which point 
You touch one willing creature, and choose Acid,You can makethe messengerterrifyingto the tar-
Cold, Fire, Lightning,orPoison. Until the spellget. If you do so, the messenger candeliver a mes-
ends, the target can take a Magic action to exhalesageofno morethan ten words,and then thetarget
a IS-foot Cone. Each creature in that area makes amakes a Wisdom saving throw. Ona failed save, the
Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6 damage of thetarget gains no benefit from its rest,andit takes 3d6
chosen type on a failed save or half as much damagePsychic damagewhenit wakes up.
on a successful one.
 The damage in-
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.
DRUIDCRAFT
creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 2.
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
D RAWMIJ 's I N STANT S UMM O NS
Range: 30 feet
Level 6 Conjuration (Wizard)
Components: V, S
 1 minute or RitualDuration: Instantaneou s
Casting Time:
Range:Touch
Whispering to the spi rit ~ of 1.ature, you create one
Components: V, S, M (a sapphire worth 1,000+GP)
 effectsv.:i.-h in ra nge.
of the following
Duration: Until dispelled
Weather Sensor. You l\:a::c.:a Tiny, harmless sen-
- t he weather will be
You touch the sapphire used in the casting and ansory effect that predicts whcl.J
at your location for th r ,·1c,.;i:24 hours. The effect
object weighing 10 pounds or less whose longest di-
might manifest as a gc11rl,.:;. , 1:\.1fo r clear skies, a
mension is 6 feet or less. The spell leaves an Invisible
266 C ll :\PTER 7 I SPE LL S

[--- Page 266 ---]
A creature within a distance from a collapsing
structure equal to half the structure's height makes
a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the crea-
ture takes 12d6 Bludgeoning damage, has the Prone
condition, and is buried in the rubble, requiring a
DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to
escape. On a successful save, the creature takes half
as much damage only.
ELDRITCH BLAST
Evocation Cantrip (Warlock)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
cloud for rain, falling snowflakes for snow, and so
Components: V, S
on. This effect persists for 1 round.
Duration: Instantaneous
Bloom. You instantly make a flower blossom, a
You hurl a beam of crackling energy. Make a ranged
seed pod open, or a leaf bud bloom.
spell attack against one creature or object in range.
Sensory Effect. You create a harmless sensory ef-
On a hit, the target takes ldlO Force damage.
fect, such as falling leaves, spectral dancing fairies,
Cantrip Upgrade. The spell creates two beams at
a gentle breeze, the sound of an animal, or the faint
level 5, three beams at level 11, and four beams at
odor of skunk. The effect must fit in a 5-foot Cube.
level 17. You can direct the beams at the same target
Fire Play. You light or snuff out a candle, a torch,
or at different ones. Make a separate attack roll for
or a campfire.
each beam.
EARTHQUAKE
ELEMENTALISM
Level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 feet
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a fractured rock)
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration , up to l minute
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a point on the ground that you can see
You exert control over the elements, creating one of
within range. For the duration, an intense tremor
the following effects within range.
rips through the ground in a 100-foot-radius circle
Beckon Air. You create a breeze strong enough to
centered on that point. The ground there is Difficult
ripple cloth, stir dust, rustle leaves, and close open
Terrain.
doors and shutters, all in a 5-foot Cube. Doors and
When you cast this spell and at the end of each of
shutters being held open by someone or something
your turns for the duration, each creature on the
aren't affected.
ground in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw.
Beckon Earth. You create a thin shroud of dust or
On a failed save, a creature has the Prone condition,
sand that covers surfaces in a 5-foot-square area, or
and its Concentration is broken.
you cause a single word to appear in your handwrit-
You can also cause the effects below.
ing in a patch of dirt or sand.
Fissures. A total of ld6 fissures open in the spell's
Beckon Fire. You create a thin cloud of harmless
area at the end of the turn you cast it. You choose
embers and colored, scented smoke in a 5-foot Cube.
the fissures' locations, which can't be under struc-
You choose the color and scent, and the embers can
tures. Each fissure is ld10 x 10 feet deep and 10 feet
light candles, torches, or lamps in that area. The
wide, and it extends from one edge of the spell's
smoke's scent lingers for 1 minute.
area to another edge. A creature in the same space
Beckon Water. You create a spray of cool mist that
as a fissu re mus t succeed on a Dexterity saving
lightly dampens creatures and objects in a 5-foot
throw or fall in. A creature that successfully saves
Cube. Alternatively, you create 1 cup of clean water
moves w ith t he fissure's edge as it opens.
either in an open container or on a surface, and the
Structures, T he tremor deals SO Bludgeoning
water evaporates in 1 minute.
damage to any structure in contact with the ground
Sculpt Element. You cause dirt, sand, fire, smoke,
in the arc.i ~-: :-1 n you cast the spell and at the end of
mist, or water that can fit in a 1-foot Cube to assume
each of yow • urn s until the spell ends. If a structure
r,
a crude shape (such as that of a creature) for 1 hour.
drops to U "/-- 1 • ~ >oints, it collapses.
CHA PTER 7 I SPELLS 267

[--- Page 267 ---]
.-;by one cat-
Enlarge. The target's sizeincrease
egory- from Medium toLarge,fo1· exa mple. The
ELEMENTALWEAPON
vantage onStrength checks and
targetalso has Ad
Level 3 Transmutation(Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
savingthr ows. T hetarget'sattacks with
Strength
orUnarmedSt r ikes dea l an
its enlarged weapons
Casting Time: Action
extrald4damageona h it.
Range:Touch
byone cate-
Reduce. The target's sizedecreases
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration,upto l hourdium to Sm all, forexample. The tar-
gory- from Me
DisadvantageonStrengthchecks and
get also has
A nonmagical weapon you touch becomes a magic
rows. T h e t a rge t 's attacks with
Strength saving th
weapon. Choose oneofthe following damage types:
 ld4
its reduced weapons or UnarmedStr ikes deal
orThunder. For the du-
Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning,
on ahit(thiscan't r educethedamage
less damage 
ration, the weapon has a+1bonus to attack rolls and
1).
below
deals an extra ld4 damage of the chosen type when
it hits.
 If you use a level
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.
E
ENSNARINGS TRIK
5-6spell slot, the bonus to attack rolls increases to
Level 1 Conjuration (Ranger)
+2,and the extra damage increases to 2d4. If you
+3,Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi-
use a level7+spell slot, the bonus increases to
ately after hitting a creature with a weapon
and the extra damage increases to 3d4.
 Self
Range:
Components: V
ENHANCE ABILITYtol minute
Duration: Concentration , up
Druid, Ranger,
Level 2 Transmutation(Bard, Cleric,
vines appearon it
As you hitthetarget,grasping 
Sorcerer,Wizard)
;
and it makes aStrengthsaving throw.A Large 
0 
Casting Time: Action
a
largercreature hasAdvantage on thissave. On 
Range:Touch
failed save,thetarget hastheRestrainedcondition
Components:V,S,M(furor a feather)
save,thevines
until the spell ends.Onasuccessful
l hour
Duration: Concentration,up to 
.
shrivel away,and thespellends
the targettakes ld6Piercing
Dex-While Restrained ,
Youtouch a creature and choose Strength, 
start ofeachofitsturns.The target
damage at the
terity, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. For the
within reachofitcan take anaction to
oracreature 
duration, the target has Advantage on ability checks
Strength(Athletics)check against yourspell
make a
using the chosen ability.
thespellends.
save DC. On a success,
Youcan target one
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.
in-
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.Thedamage 
2.
additional creature for each spell slot level above
1.
creases byld6for each spellslotlevel above
can choose a different ability for eachtarget.
You 
ENTANGLE
REDUCE
ENLARGE/
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
(Bard,Druid,Sorcerer, Wizard)
Level 2 Transmutation
Casting Time: Action
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
feet
Range: 30 
V,S
wdered iron)Components:
Components:V,S,M(apinch ofpo
D uration: Concentration , u p to l minute
Duration:Concentration, up to l minute
For the duration, the spellenlarges or reduces aGrasping plants sprout from the groundin a 20-foot
in range (seerange. For the duration, these plants
creatu re or an object you can see withsquare wi thin 
into Difficult Terrain.
the chosen effect below). A targeted object mustturn the ground in th earea 
ar when the spell ends.
be neither worn nor carried. If the target is an un-They disappe
than yo u) in the area when
willing creature, it can make a Constitution savingEach creature (other 
on a Strength sav-
throw. On a successful save, the spell has no effect.you cast the spell must succeed 
is wearingthe Restrained condition until the
Everything that a targeted creature ing throw or have 
action
spell ends . A Restrained creature can take an 
and carrying changes size with it. Any item it drops
Strength (A thl etics) check against your
returns to normal size at once. A thrown weapon orto make a 
spell save DC. On a s uccess, it fre es itself from the
piece of ammunition returns to normal size imme-
diately after it hits or misses a target.grasping plants an d is 1 o longer Restrained by them.
CH A PTER 7 I SPE Li. ~

[--- Page 268 ---]
Youremain in the Border Ethereal for the duration.
During this time, you can move in any direction. If
ENTHRALL
you move up or down, every foot of movement costs
(Bard,Warlock)
Level2 Enchantment
an extra foot.Youcan perceive the plane you left,
Casting Time: Action
which looks gray, and you can't see anything there
Range: 60 feet
more than 60 feet away.
Components: V, S
While on the Ethereal Plane, you can affect and
Duration: Concentration , up to 1 minute
be affected only by creatures, objects, and effects
words, causingon that plane. Creatures that aren't on the Ethereal
You weave a distracting string of 
Plane can't perceive or interact with you unless a
creatures of yourchoice that you can see within
 ability to do so.
feature gives them the
range to make a Wisdom saving throw. Any crea-
to the plane you
When the spell ends, you return 
ture youor yourcompanions are fighting automati-
the
left in the spot that corresponds to your space in 
on this save. On a failed save, a target
cally succeeds 
Border Ethereal.Ifyou appear in an occupied space,
has a -10 penalty to Wisdom (Perception) checks
you are shunted to the nearest unoccupied space
ception until the spell ends.
and Passive Per
and take Force damage equal to twice the number
of feet you are moved.
ETHERE A L N E SSThis spell ends instantly if you cast it while you
are on the Ethereal Plane or a plane that doesn't
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock,
border it, such as one of the Outer Planes.
Wizard)
 You can target up
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.
Casting Time: Act ion
to three willing creatures (including yourself) for
Range:Self
7.The creatures must be
each spell slot level above
V,S
Components:
within10feet of you when you cast the spell.
Duration: Up to 8 hours
You step into the border regions of the Ethereal
 w ht:rt it overlaps with your current plane.
Plane,
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS 269

[--- Page 269 ---]
EYEBITE
EVARD 'SBLACK TENTACLES
Level 6 Necromancy (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Range:90 feet
V,S
Components:
Components: V,S,M(atentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
For the duration,youreyesbecome an inkyvoid.
Squirming, ebony tentaclesfilla 20-foot square on
you
Onecreatureof yourchoicewithin 60feetof
ground that you can see within range. For the du-
thatyou can seemust succeedonaWisdomsaving
ration, these tentaclesturnthe ground inthatarea
effects
throw orbe affected by oneof thefollowing 
into Difficult Terrain.
the duration.
Strength sav-of yourchoice for 
Each creature in that area makes a 
On eachof yourturnsuntilthespell ends, you can
ing throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 Bludgeon-
ing damage,and it has the Restrained conditiontake a Magic act ion totarget another creaturebut
until the spellends. A creature also makes that savecan't target acreature againifit has succeeded on a
if it enters the area or ends itturn there. A creatu resave against this cast ingof thespell.
makes that save only once per turn.Asleep. The target has t he Unconscious condition.
ained creature can take an action to makeIt wakes upifit takes a nydamageor if another
A Restr
st yourspell savecreature takes an action toshake it awake.
a Strength (Athletics) check agai n
has theFr ightenedcondition.
DC, ending the condition on itself on a success.Panicked. The target 
On eachofitsturns, t he Frightened target must
ta ke t he Dash action and move away from you by
EXPED!TlOUSRETREAT
rtest route available.Ifthe target
the safest and sho
Level 1 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
moves to a space at least 60 feet away from you
where it can't see you, thi s effect en ds.
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Sickened. The targe t has t he Poisoned condition.
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You take the Dash action, and until the spell ends,
you can take that action again as a Bonus Action.
270 CH A PTER 7 I SPELLS

[--- Page 270 ---]
FABRIC AT E
FEAR
Level 4 Transmutation (Wizard)
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Range: Self
components: V, S
Components: V, S, M (a white feather)
Duration: Instantaneous
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You convert raw materials into products of the
Each creature in a 30-foot Cone must succeed on a
same material. For example, you can fabricate a
Wisdom saving throw or drop whatever it is holding
wooden bridge from a clump of trees, a rope from a
and have the Frightened condition for the duration.
patch of hemp, or clothes from flax or wool.
A Frightened creature takes the Dash action and
Choose raw materials that you can see within
moves away from you by the safest route on each
range. You can fabricate a Large or smaller object
of its turns unless there is nowhere to move. If the
(contained within a 10-foot Cube or eight connected
creature ends its turn in a space where it doesn't
S-foot Cubes) given a sufficient quantity of mate-
have line of sight to you, the creature makes a Wis-
rial. If you're working with metal, stone, or another
dom saving throw. On a successful save, the spell
mineral substance, however, the fabricated object
ends on that creature.
can be no larger than Medium (contained within a
---·-------
5-foot Cube). The quality of any fabricated objects is
based on the quality of the raw materials.FEATHER FALL
Creatures and magic items can't be created by
Level 1 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
this spell. You also can't use it to create items that
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you or a
require a high degree of skill-such as weapons and
creature you can see within 60 feet of you falls
armor-unless you have proficiency with the type of
Range: 60 feet
Artisan's Tools used to craft such objects.
Components: V, M (a small feather or piece of down)
Duration: l minute
··_,,.. --
Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A
FAERIE FIRE
falling creature's rate of descent slows to 60 feet per
Level 1 Evocation (Bard, Druid)
round until the spell ends. If a creature lands before
Casting Time: Action
the spell ends, the creature takes no damage from
Range: 60 feet
the fall, and the spell ends for that creature.
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
FEIGN DEATH
Objects in a 20-foot Cube within range are out-
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
lined in blue, green, or violet light (your choice).
Each creature in the Cube is also outlined if it fails
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
a Dexterity saving throw. For the duration, objects
Range:Touch
and affected creatures shed Dim Light in a 10-foot
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of graveyard dirt)
radius and can't benefit from the Invisible condition.
Duration: l hour
Attack rolls against an affected creature or object
You touch a willing creature and put it into a cata-
have Advantage if the attacker can see it.
leptic state that is indistinguishable from death.
For the duration, the target appears dead to out-
ward inspection and to spells used to determine the
FA LSE LI FE
target's status. The target has the Blinded and Inca-
Level 1 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Wizard)
pacitated conditions, and its Speed is 0.
Casting Time: Action
The target also has Resistance to all damage ex-
Range: Self
cept Psychic damage, and it has Immunity to the
Components: V, S, M (a drop of alcohol)
Poisoned condition.
Duration: Insta ntaneous
You gain 2d4 + 4 Temporary Hit Points.
Using c, :w~;J,er-Level Spell Slot. You gain 5 addi-
tional Tem1nra ry Hit Points for each spell slot level
above 1.
CHA PTER 7 I SP E LLS 271

[--- Page 271 ---]
SPIRITSS U MMONED8VF1NDFI\Mllll\R
REDSYT'"'1 EMAGES
T AKEFORMSINSPI
W'"'10C.ONJURETl-'EM.
ofthe Familiar.Whenthefamiliar
Disappearance
drops to O Hit Points, it disappears. It reappears
FINDFAMILIAR
. As a Magic action,
after you cast this spell again 
Level 1 Conjuration (Wizard)
you can temporarily dismissthefamiliar to a pocket
Casting Time: l hour orRitual
dimension. Alternatively, you candismiss it forever.
Range:l O feet
dismissed,
As a Magic action while it istemporarily
V,S,M (burning incense worth10+ GP,
Components:
reappearin an unoccupied space
you can cause it to
which the spell consumes)
within 30 feetofyou.Whenever thefamiliar drops
Duration: Instantaneous
to O Hit Pointsordisappears into the pocket dimen-
sion, it leaves behind in its spaceanythingit was
Yougain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes
wearingor carrying.
an animal form you choose: Bat, Cat, Frog,Hawk,
one
One Familiar Only. Youcan'thave more than
Lizard, Octopus, Owl, Rat, Raven, Spider, Weasel,
If youcast thisspell while you
of 0.familiar at a time. 
or another Beast that has a Challenge Rating 
you instead cause it to adopt a new
have a familiar, 
Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the
eligible form.
familiar has the statistics of the chosen form (see
Fey,or Fiend
appendixB),though itisa Celestial,
(your choice) instead of a Beast. Your familiar acts
FINDSTEED
independently of you, but it obeys your commands.
Level 2 Conjuration (Paladin)
is
Telepathic Connection. While your familiar 
within 100 feet of you, you can communicate with
Casting Time: Action
it telepathically. Additionally, as a Bonus Action,
Range: 30 feet
you can see through the familiar's eyes and hear
Component:V,S
start of your next turn, gain-
what it hears until the 
Duration: Instantaneous
ing the benefits of any special senses it has.
You summon an otherworldly being thatappears as
Finally, when you cast a spell with a range of
a loyal steed in an unoccupied space of your choice
touch, your familiar can deliver the touch. Your
within range. This creatu re uses the Otherworldly
familiar must be within 100 feet of you, and it must
steed from
Steed stat block.Ifyou already have a 
take a Reaction to deliver the touch when you cast
this spell, the steed is replaced by the new one.
the spell.
 a La rge, rideable animal of
The steed resembles
 The familiar is an ally to you and your
Combat.
your choice, such as a horse, a camel, a dire wolf,
allies. It rolls its own Initiative and acts on its own
 cat:l t he spell, choose the
or an elk. Whenever you
turn. A familiar can't attack, but it can take other
,l. Fey, or Fiend-
steed's creature typc-Ccdt's i~
actions as normal.
which determines certr,i n ir,t its in the stat block.
CH APTE R 7 I SPELLS

[--- Page 272 ---]
=--~ ·~ ·-· - - --~ =-== = ==========
0THE ~ \·:/ O RL D lY S T EED
Large Celest ial, Fey, or Fiend (Your Choice), Neutral
FIND THE PATH
Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
AC 10 + 1 per spel l leve l
HP 5 + 10 per spell level (th e steed has a number of Hit
Casting Time: l minute
Dice [dl0s] equa l to the spell's level)
Range: Self
Speed 60 ft., Fly 60 f t . (req uires level 4+ spell)
Components: V, S, M (a set of divination tools-such
MOD SAVE
!.1 0D SAVEM OD SAVE
as cards or runes-worth 100+ GP)
DEX 12 +1 +l
CON 14 +2 +2
STR 18 +4 +4
Duration: Concentration, up to l day
Wis 12 +l +lCHA 8 -1 -1
INT 6 -2 -2
You magically sense the most direct physical route
Senses Passive Perception 11
to a location you name. You must be familiar with
Languages Telepathy l mile (works only with you)
the location, and the spell fails if you name a desti-
CR None (XP 0 ; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
nation on another plane of existence, a moving des-
tination (such as a mobile fortress), or an unspecific
TRAITS
destination (such as "a green dragon's lair").
Life Bond. When you rega in H it Points from a level l+
For the duration, as long as you are on the same
spell, the steed regains the same number of Hit Points
plane of existence as the destination, you know
if you're within 5 feet ofit .
how far it is and in what direction it lies. Whenever
you face a choice of paths along the way there, you
ACTIONS
know which path is the most direct.
Otherworldly Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals
your spell attack mod ifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: ld8 plus the
spell 's level of Radiant (Celestial) , Psychic (Fey), or Ne-FIND TRAPS
crotic (Fiend) damage.
Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
BONUS ACTIONS
Range: 120 feet
Fell Glare (Fiend Only; Recharges after a Long Rest).
Components: V, S
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC,
Duration: Instantaneous
one creature within 60 feet the steed can see. Failure:
You sense any trap within range that is within line
The target has the Frightened condition until the end of
of sight. A trap, for the purpose of this spell, in-
your next turn .
cludes any object or mechanism that was created
Fey Step (Fey Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). The
to cause damage or other danger. Thus, the spell
steed teleports , along with its rider, to an unoccupied
would sense the Alarm or Glyph of Warding spell or a
space of your choice up to 60 feet away from itself.
mechanical pit trap, but it wouldn't reveal a natural
Healing Touch (Celestial Only; Recharges after a Long
weakness in the floor, an unstable ceiling, or a hid-
Rest). O ne creature within 5 feet of the steed regains a
den sinkhole.
number of Hit Po ints equal to 2d8 plus the spell's level.
This spell reveals that a trap is present but not
its location. You do learn the general nature of the
danger posed by a trap you sense.
Combat. The steed is an ally to you and your al-
lies. In combat, it shares your Initiative count, and
it functions as a controlled mount while you ride it
F INGER OF DEATH
(as defined in t he rules on mounted combat). If you
Level 7 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
have the Incapacitated condition, the steed takes
its turn immediately after yours and acts inde-
Casting Time: Action
pendently, focusing on protecting you.
Range: 60 feet
Disappearance of the Steed. The steed disappears
Components: V, S
if it drops to O Hit Points or if you die. When it dis-
Duration: Instantaneous
appears, it leaves behind anything it was wearing
You unleash negative energy toward a creature you
or carrying. If you cast this spell again, you decide
can see within range. The target makes a Constitu-
whether you summon the steed that disappeared or
tion saving throw, taking 7d8 + 30 Necrotic damage
a different one.
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc-
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell slot's
cessful one.
level for the spell's level in the stat block.
A Humanoid killed by this spell rises at the start
of your next turn as a Zombie (see appendix B) that
follows your verbal orders.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS 27~

[--- Page 273 ---]
target. On a hit, the target takes ldlO Fire damage.
A flammable object hit by this spell starts burning if
FIREBALL
it isn't being worn or carried.
Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ldlO
Casting Time: Action
when you reach levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17
Range: 150 feet
(4d10).
Components: V, S, M (a ba ll of bat guano and sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous
FIRE SHIELD
A bright streak flashes from you to a point you
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
choose within range and then blossoms with a
low roar into a fiery explosion. Each creature in a
Casting Time: Action
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on that point makes
Range: Self
a Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 Fire damage
Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus or a firefly)
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc-
Duration: 10 minutes
cessful one.
Wispy flames wreathe your body for the duration
Flammable objects in the area that aren't being
shedding Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim'
worn or carried start burning.
Light for an additional 10 feet.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
The flames provide you with a warm shield or a
creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 3.
chill shield, as you choose. The warm shield grants
you Resistance to Cold da mage, and the chill shield
grants you Resistance to Fire damage.
FIRE BOLT
In addition, whenever a creature within 5 feet
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
of you hits you with a m e lee attack roll, the shield
Casting Time: Action
erupts with flame. T h e attacker takes 2d8 Fire dam-
Range: 120 feet
age from a warm shicl ·! ,·)r 2d8 Cold damage from a
Components: V, S
chill shield.
Duration: lnstaritaneo•;s
You hurl a mote of fi re at a creature or an object
wit hin ra nge. Make a ranged spell attack against the
1
2.•7•. C!! vr;;: { 7 ' Sl· CLI .S

[--- Page 274 ---]
fIRE S T O R MFLAMING SPHERE
Level 7 Evoca tio n (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Level 2 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feetRange: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Components: V, S, M (a ball of wax)
Duration: Inst anta neou s
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
A storm of fire appears within range. The area of
You create a 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire in an un-
the storm consists of up to ten 10-fo ot Cubes, which
occupied space on the ground within range. It lasts
you arrange as you like. Each Cube must be contig-
for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn
uous with at least one other Cube. Each creature
within 5 feet of the sphere makes a Dexterity saving
in the area makes a Dexter ity saving throw, taking
throw, taking 2d6 Fire damage on a failed save or
7dl0 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much
half as much damage on a successful one.
damage on a successful one.
As a Bonus Action, you can move the sphere up to
Flammable objects in the area that aren't being
30 feet, rolling it along the ground. If you move the
worn or carried star t burning.
sphere into a creature's space, that creature makes
the save against the sphere, and the sphere stops
moving for the turn.
FLAME BLADE
When you move the sphere, you can direct it over
Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer)
barriers up to 5 feet tall and jump it across pits up
to 10 feet wide. Flammable objects that aren't being
Casting Time: Bonus Action
worn or carried start burning if touched by the
Range: Self
sphere, and it sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot radius
Components: V, S, M (a sumac leaf)
and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade
creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 2.
is similar in size and shape to a scimitar, and it lasts
for the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disap-
pears, but you can evoke it again as a Bonus Action.
FLESH TO STONE
As a Magic action, you can make a melee spell at-
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
tack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes
Casting Time: Action
Fire damage equal to 3d6 plus your spellcasting
Range: 60 feet
ability modifier.
Components: V, S, M (a cockatrice feather)
The flaming blade sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-You attempt to turn one creature that you can see
creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above 2.within range into stone. The target makes a Consti-
tution saving throw. On a failed save, it has the Re-
strained condition for the duration. On a successful
FLAME STRIKE
save, its Speed is O until the start of your next turn.
Level 5 Evocation (Cleric)Constructs automatically succeed on the save.
A Restrained target makes another Constitution
Casting Time: Action
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it
Range: 60 feet
successfully saves against this spell three times, the
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sulfur)
spell ends. lf it fails its saves three times, it is turned
Duration: Instantaneous
to stone and has the Petrified condition for the
A vertical column of brilliant fire roars down from
duration. The successes and failures needn't be con-
above. Eac h creature in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-
secutive; keep track of both until the target collects
high Cylin der centered on a point within range
three of a kind.
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking Sd6 Fire
If you maintain your Concentration on this spell
damage and Sd6 Radiant damage on a failed save or
for the entire possible duration, the target is Pet-
half as m uch damage on a successful one.
rified until the condition is ended by Greater Resto-
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Fire damage
ration or similar magic.
and the f<;dian t damage increase by ld6 for each
spell slot !.: vc-1 above 5.
CH APT ER 7 I SPELLS '1'7~

