[--- Page 295 ---]
understand you . The suggestion must so •.!nd achiev-
able and not involve a nything that w ou ld obviously
MASS CURE WOUNDS
deal damage to any of t he targets or their allies. For
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, C/er-ic, Druid)
example, you could say, "Wa lk to the vill age dow n
Casting Time: Actionthat road, and help t he vi llagers t here harves t crops
Range: 60 feetuntil sunset." O r you could say, "Now is not t he time
Components: V, S
for violence. Dr op you r wea pons, and dance! Stop in
Duration: Instantaneous
an hour."
Each ta rget must succeed on a Wisdom saving
A wave of healing energy washes out from a point
throw or have the Charmed condit io n for the du ra-
you can see within range. Choose up to six crea-
tion or until you or you r a llies deal da mage to the
tures in a 30-foot-radius Sphere centered on that
target. Each Cha r med ta rget pu rsu es the suggest ion
point. Each target regains Hit Points equal to Sd8
to the best of its ability. T he suggested ac tivity can
plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
continue for the entire duration, but if the sug-
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
gested activity can be completed in a shorter time,
creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 5.
the spell ends for a target upon completing it.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration is
longer with a spell slot of level 7 (10 days), 8 (30
MASS HEAL
days), or 9 (366 days).
Level 9 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
.,..
Range: 60 feet
MAZE
Components: V, S
Level 8 Conjuration (Wizard)
Duration: Instantaneous
Casting Time: Action
A flood of healing energy flows from you into
Range: 60 feet
creatures around you. You restore up to 700 Hit
Components: V, S
Points, divided as you choose among any number of
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
creatures that you can see within range. Creatures
You banish a creature that you can see within range
healed by this spell also have the Blinded, Deafened,
into a labyrinthine demiplane . The target remains
and Poisoned conditions removed from them.
there for the duration or until it escapes the maze.
The target can take a Study action to try to es-
MASS HEALING WORD
cape. When it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric)(Investigation) check. If it succeeds, it escapes, and
the spell ends.
Casting Time: Bonus Action
When the spell ends, the target reappears in the
Range: 60 feet
space it left or, if that space is occupied, in the near-
Components: V
est unoccupied space.
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see
within range regain Hit Points equal to 2d4 plusMELD INTO STONE
your spellcasting ability modifier.
Level 3 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
creases by 1d4 for each spell slot level above 3.
Range:Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
MASS SUGGESTIO N
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)You step into a stone object or surface large enough
to fully contain your body, merging yourself and
Casting Time: Action
your equipment with the s tone for t he duration.
Range: 60 feet
You must touch the stone to clo so. Nothing of your
Components: V, M (a snake's tongue)
presence remains visible or ot herw ise detectable by
Duration: 24 hours
nonmagical senses.
You suggest a course of activity-described in no
While merged with t he s t. one:, :,rou can't see what
more than 25 words-to twelve or fewer crea-
occurs outside it, and any Vvi .,; tl,,: ;J (Perception)
tures you can see within range that can hear and
checks you make to hear sou ,;(.' · 0·1ts ide it are made
?Oh CHAPTER 7 I SPE LLS

[--- Page 296 ---]
with Disadvantage. You remain awareofthe pas-
target takes 4d4 Acid damage and 2d4 Acid damage
sageoftime and can castspells on yourself while
at the end of its next turn. On a miss, thearrow
merged inthe stone. You can use 5 feet of move-
splashes the target with acid for half as muchofthe
ment to leavethe stone whereyou entered it, whichinitial damage only.
the spell. Youotherwise can't move.
ends Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage (both
physical damage to the stone doesn't harm
Minor initial and later) increases by ld4 for each spell slot
but its partial destruction or a change in its
you, level above 2.
shape (to theextent thatyou no longer fit within it)
p-----·------------
expels youanddeals6d6Force damage to you. The
MENDING
stone's completedestruction(or transmutation into
Transmutation Cantrip(Bard, Cleric,Druid, Sorcerer,
a different substance) expels you and deals 50 Force
Wizard)
damage to you. Ifexpelled, you move into an unoc-
cupied space closestto where you first entered and
Casting Time:l minute
have the Prone condition.
Range:Touch
Components:V,S,M (two lodestones)
Duration:Instantaneous
1
M ELF SACID ARROW
object
This spell repairs a single break or tear in an 
Level 2 Evocation (Wizard)
you touch, such as a broken chain link, two halves
Casting Time: Action
or a leaking wineskin.
of a broken key, a torn cloak, 
Range: 90 fe et
As long as the break or tear is no larger than 1 foot
Components: V, S, M (powdered rhubarb leaf)
in any dimension, you mend it, leaving no trace of
Duration:Instantaneous
the former damage.
A shimmering green arrow streaks toward a targetThis spell can physically repair a magic item, but
within rangrJ a nd bursts in a spray of acid. Make ait can't restore magic to such an object.
ll a; ack against the target. On a hit, the
ranged spe
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS 297

[--- Page 297 ---]
MINDSLIVER
MESSAGE
Enchantment Can trip (Sorcerer, Warlock ,Wizard)
Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time:
 Action
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Range:120 feet
Components: V
Components:S,M(acopperwire)
Duration: l round
Duration: l round
Youtryto temporarily 
sliverthemindofonecrea-
Youpoint toward a creature within range and
tureyou can seewithinrange.The targetmust
whisper a message. The target (and only the target)
succeed onanIntelligencesavingthrow ortakeld6
hears the message and can reply in a whisperthat
Psychic damage
andsubtract ld4fromthe nextsav-
only you can hear.
ingthrowit makes beforetheendofyournextturn.
Youcan cast this spell through solid objects if you
Cantrip Upgrade.The damage increases by ld6
are familiar with the target and know it
isbeyond
when you reach levels 5 (2d6),
the barrier. Magical silence; 1 foot11(3d6),and17(4d6).
ofstone, metal,or
wood;ora thin sheetoflead blocks the spell.
MINDSPIKE
METEORLevel 2 Divination (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
SWARM
Level 9 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Casting Time: Action
Components: S
Range: l mile
Components:V,SDuration: Concentration, up to l hour
Duration: Instantaneous
Youdrive a spikeofpsionicenergy into themind of
Blazing orbsoffire plummet to the ground at fouronecreatureyoucanseewithinrange.The target
different points you can see within range. Eachmakes a Wisdom 
saving throw,taking 3d8Psychic
creature in a 4O-foot-radius Sphere centered ondamage on a failed saveor halfasmuch
damage on
eachofthose points makes a Dexterity saving
a successful one. On a failed save,youalso always
throw. A creature takes 2Od6 Fire damage and
know thetarget's location untilthespell ends,but
2Od6 Bludgeoning damage on a failed save or halfonly while the two of
youare onthesameplane
as much damage on a successful one. A creature inofexistence. While you have this knowledge, the
the areaofmore than one fiery Sphere 
is affectedtarget can't become hidden from you,and ifit has
only once.
the Invisible condition, it gains nobenefit from that
A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or car-condition against you.
ried also takes the damage if it's in the spell's area,Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.
The damage in-
and the object starts burning if it's flammable.creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 2.
MINDBLANK
MINORILLUSION
Level 
8 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard)Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Casting Time: Action
Range:Touch
Range: 30 feet
Components:V,SComponents:
S,M(abit of fleece)
Duration:24hoursDuration: l minute
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
You create a soundoran imageofan object within
has Immunity to Psychic damage and the Charmed
range that lasts for the duration . See the descrip-
condition. The target 
is also unaffected by anythingtions below for the effectsofeach. The illusion ends
that would sense its emotions or alignment, read itsif you cast this spell again.
thoughts, or magically detect its location, and noIfa creature takes a 
Studyr1ction to examine the
spell-not even Wish-can gather information aboutsound or image, the creature ca n determine that it
the target, observe it remotely, or control its mind.is an illusion with a successfo '.li;telligence (Investi-
gation) check against you r sp~i!:;:-
,ve DC.Ifa crea-
ture discerns the illusion for v. k .t it is, the illusion
becomes faint to the crea ·ui• ;-
298 CHA PTER 7 I SPE LL S

[--- Page 298 ---]
Sound. If_.ro ucreate asound,its volume can
Each time a creature hits you with anattackroll
nge fro m a whisperto ascream.
Itcanbe your
during the spell's duration, roll a d6 for eachofyour
ra I • • 1· • b • f
·ce som
eo ne e se s voice, a 10n s roar, a eatmg o
VOi,
remaining duplicates. If anyofthe d6s rolls a 3or
drums, oranyothersoundyouchoose. The sound
higher, oneofthe duplicatesishit insteadofyou,
ontinues unabatedthroughouttheduration, or you
and the duplicateisdestroyed. The duplicatesother-
~anmake discrete sounds atdifferent times before
wise ignore all other damage and effects. The spell
the spell ends.
ends when all three duplicates are destroyed.
Image. Ifyoucreateanimageofanobject-such
A creatureisunaffected by this spell
ifit has the
as a chair,muddy footprints,ora smallchest-it
Blinded condition, Blindsight, or Truesight.
must benolargerthana5-footCube. The image
p---··-----
can'tcreatesound, light, smell,orany othersensory
effect. Physicalinteraction
withtheimage reveals itMISLEAD
to beanillusion,sincethingscanpass through it.
Level5Illusion(Bard,Warlock, Wizard)
------
Casting Time: Action
r,--
Range:Self
MIRAGEARCANE
Components: S
Level 7 Illusion (Bard, Druid, Wizard)
Duration: Concentration, up to
 l hour
casting Time: 10 minutes
Yougain the Invisible condition at the same time
Range:Sight
that an illusory double of you appears where you
Components: V, S
are standing. The double lasts for the duration,
but
Duration: 10 days
the invisibility ends immediately after you make
an
Youmaketerrainin an areaup to 1 mile square
attack roll, deal damage, or cast a spell.
look,sound,smell,andeven feel like some other
Asa Magic action, you can move the illusory
sortof terrain. Openfieldsora road could be made
double up to twice your Speed and make it gesture,
to resemble aswamp
, hill, crevasse,orsome other
speak, and behave in whatever way you choose. It is
roughorimpassable ter rain. Apond can be made to
intangible and invulnerable.
seem like agrassymeadow, a precipice like a gentle
Youcan see through its eyes and hear through its
slope,orarock-strewngully like a wide and smooth
ears as if you were located where it 
is.
road.
Similarly,
you can alter theappearance ofstruc-
turesoraddthem MISTYSTEP
wherenone arepresent. The spell
doesn't disguise,conceal
,oradd creatures.Level2 Conjuration(Sorcerer,Warlock,Wizard)
The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and
Casting Time: Bonus Action
olfactory elements, so itcan
turnclear ground into
Range: Self
DifficultTerrain(or vice versa)
orotherwise impede
Components: V
movementthrough the area. Any piece 
of the illu-
Duration:Instantaneous
soryterrain(such as arock orstick)that
is removed
Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up
fromthespell'sareadisappears immediately.
to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
Creatures with Truesight cansee through the illu-
sion tothe terrain's trueform ; however, all other 
el-
ements
of theillusion remain, so while the creature
MODI FYMEMORY
is aware of 
the illusion's presence, the creature can
Level5 Enchantment(Bard, Wizard)
still physicallyinteract with the illusion.
Casting Time:Action
Range:30feet
MIRROR IMAGE
Components:V,S
Level 
2 Illusion(Bard,Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Duration:Concentration, up to l minute
Casting Time: Acti on
Youattempt to reshape another creature's mem-
Range: Sel f
ories. One creature that you can see within range
Components: \/, S
makes a Wisdom saving throw. If you are fighting
Durat ion: l m inute
the creature, it has Advantage on the save. On a
failed save, the target has the Charmed condition
Three illusor y duplicates of yourself appear in your
for the duration. While Charmed in this way, the
space. Untiltr, • spell ends, the duplicates move with
target also has the Incapacitated condition and is
you and mi mit you r actions, shifting position so it's
unaware of its surroundings, though it can hear
impossible to ~t-,:k which image is real.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS 
299

[--- Page 299 ---]
enters thespell'sarea orendsitsturnt here. A crea-
you. If it takes any damageoristargeted byanother
turemakes this save o
nlyonceper turn.
spell, this spell ends, and no memories are modified.
Using a Higher-Level
Spell Slot.Thedamage in-
While this charm lasts, you can 
affect the target's
creasesbyldlO foreach spellslotlevel above 2.
memoryofan eventthatit experienced within
the
last24
hours andthatlasted no morethan10 min-
utes. You can permanently eliminate all memory
of
MORDENKAINEN' SFAITHF U LHO
UND
the event, allow the target to recall 
the event with
Level 4 Conjuration (W izard)
perfect clarity, change its memory
ofthe event's de-
tails,or
create a memoryofsome other event.Casting Time:Action
You must speak to the target to describe how its
Range:30 feet
memories are affected, and it must be able 
tounder-Components: V, S, M(asilver wh ist
le)
standyour
language for the modified memories to
Duration: 8 hours
take root. Its mind fills in any gaps in the detailsof
You conjure a pha ntomwatchdoginanunoccupied
yourdescription.Ifthe spell ends before you finish
spacethatyoucansee within range.The hound
describing the modified memories, the creature's
remains forthedu rationoruntilthe twoof
you are
memory isn't altered. Otherwise, the modified mem-
morethan300feet
apartfrom eachother.
ories take holdwhen the spell ends.
No onebutyoucanseethehound, andit is in-
A modified memory doesn't necessarily affect
tangible and invulnerable
.Whena Smallorlarger
how acreaturebehaves, particularly if the mem-
creaturecomeswithin30feetofitwithoutfirst
orycontradicts the creature's natural inclinations,
speaking the passwordthat
you specify whenyou
alignment,orbeliefs. An illogical modified memory,
cast this spell, the houndstartsbarkingloudly. The
such as a false memoryofhow much the creature
hound has Truesi
ghtwitharangeof 30feet.
enjoyed swimming in acid, is dismissed as a bad
At thestart ofeachof your turns, the houndat-
dream. The DM might deem a modified memory too
tempts to bite oneenemywithin5 feetofit.That
nonsensical to affect a creature.
enemy must succeedonaDexterity saving
throwor
A Remove CurseorGreater Restoration spell cast on
take4d8Force damage.
the target 
restores the creature's true memory.
Onyour laterturns,youcan takea Magic action
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can alter the
to move the houndupto30feet.
target's memoriesofan eventthattook place up to 7
days ago (level 6 spell slot),
30days ago (level 7 spell
slot), 365 days ago (level 8 spell slot),orany time in
MORDENKAINEN'SMAGNIFICENTMANSION
the creature's past (level 9 spell slot).
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: l minute
MOONBEAM
Range:300 feet
Level 2 Evocation (Druid)
Components: V,S,M(aminiature door worth 15+GP)
Duration:
24hours
Casting Time: Action
Range:120 feet
You conjure a shimmering 
door in rangethatlasts
Components:
V,S,M(amoonseed leaf)
for the duration. The door
leadsto an extradimen-
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
sional dwelling and is 5 feet 
wideand10 feet tall.
You 
and any creature you designatewhen you cast
A silvery beam of pale light shines down in a
the spell can 
enter the extradimensional dwelling
5-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a
as long as the 
door remains open. Youcan openor
point within range. Until the spell ends, Dim Light
close it (no action required) 
if you are within30
fills the Cylinder, and you can take a Magic action
feet of it. While closed, the door is imperceptible.
on later 
turns to move the Cylinder up to60feet.
Beyond the door is a magnificent foyerwith
When the Cylinder appears, each creature in it
numerous chambers beyond. The dwelling's atmo-
makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed
sphere is clean, fresh, and warm.
save, a creature takes 2d10 Radiant damage, and if
You can create any floor plan you like for 
the
the creature 
is shape-shifted (as a result of the Poly-
dwelling, but it can't exceed 50 c
ontiguous 10-foot
morph spell, for example), it reverts to its true form
Cubes. The place is furnish ed a nd decorated as you
and can't shape-shift until it leaves the Cylinder.
choose. It contains sufficient fo ot!to serve a nine-
On a successful save, a creature takes half as much
course banquet for up to 100 people. Furnishings
damage only. A creature also makes this save when
and other objects created by
 this spell dissipate into
the spell's area moves into its space and when it
smoke if removed from it.
30 0 C H A PTER 7 I SPE LLS

[--- Page 300 ---]
A staffof100 near-transparentservants attends
sort of
When you cast the spell, you decide what
all who enter. You determine the appearance of
security the spell provides, choosing anyofthe fol-
theirattire. They are invulner-
theseservants and lowing properties:
able and obeyyourcommands. Each servant can
• Sound can't pass through the barrier at the edge
perform tasksthata human could perform, but they
of the warded area.
can'tattackortake anyaction that would directly
• The barrier of the warded area appears dark and
the servants can fetch
harmanother creature. Thus 
foggy,preventing vision (including Darkvision)
things, clean, mend, fold clothes, light fires, serve
through it.
food,pourwine, andso on. The servants can't leave
• Sensors created by Divination spells can't appear
the dwelling.
inside the protected area or pass through the bar-
When the spell ends, any creatures or objects left
rier at its perimeter.
inside the extradimensional space are expelled into
• Creatures in the area can't be targeted by Divina-
the unoccupied spaces nearest to the entrance.
tion spells.
-<:;:,--• Nothing can teleport into or out of the warded
area.
MORDE NKAINEN'SPRIVATE SANCTUM
is blocked within the warded area.
• Planar travel 
Level 4 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting this spell on the same spot every day for
Casting Time: 10 minutes
365 days makes the spell last until dispelled.
Range: 120 feet
Using a Higher-LevelSpeUSlot. You can increase
Components:V,S, M(athin sheetoflead)
the size of the Cube by 100 feet for each spell slot
Duration: 24 hou rs
level above 4.
You make an area wi thin range magically secure.
The area is a ube that can be as small as 5 feet to
as large as JO O fee t on each side. The spell lasts for
ration.
the du
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS 301

[--- Page 301 ---]
NONDETECTION
MORDENKAINEN'SSWORD
Level
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Wizard) 3 Abjuration (Bard , Ranger,
Wizard)
Casting Time: 
Casting Time: ActionAction
Range:Touch
Range:90feet
Components:V, S,
M(aminiature sword worthComponents:V,S, M
(apinchofdiamond dust worth
25+ GP, which the spell consumes)
250+ GP)
Duration: Concentration,Duration:
upto l minute 8 hours
Youcreate a spectral sword
thathovers withinFor the duration, y
ou hide atargetthatyou touch
range. It lasts for the duration.from Divination spells.
Thetarget can
be a willing
When 
thesword appears, you make a melee spellcreature,
orit can be a place
or anobject no larger
attack against a target within 5 feet
ofthe sword.than10 feet in any dimension.
The targetcan't
On a hit, the target takes Force damage equal to
be targeted by any 
Divination spellorperceived
4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
through magical
scrying sensors.
On yourlater turns, you can take a Bonus Action
to move 
the sword up to30feet to a spot you can
NYSTUL
see and repeat the attack against the same target or' SMAGICAURA
a different one.Level 2 Illusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
-----------
:;:::,::=-'-
-
Range:Touch
MOVE EARTH
Components: V, 
S, M(asmall squareofsilk)
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Duration:
24hours
Casting Time:
 Action
With a touch, you place
anillusionona willing
Range: 120 feet
creature 
or an objectthatisn't being
worn orcar-
Components:
V,S, M(aminiature shovel)
ried. A creature 
gains the Mask effect below, and an
Duration: Concentration, up to 2 hours
object gains the False Aura 
effect below. The effect
Choose an 
areaofterrain no larger than
40feet onlasts for the duration. If 
you castthe
spell on the
a side within range. You 
can reshape dirt, sand, or
same target every day for
30days,theillusion lasts
clay in 
the area in any manner you choose for the
until dispelled.
duration. You can raise
orlower the area's eleva-
Mask (Creature).
 Choose acreature type other
tion, create
orfill in a trench, erect or flatten a wall,
than 
the target's actual type. Spells 
andothermagi-
orform a pillar. The extent 
of any such changes
cal effectstreat the target 
asifit were 
acreature of
can't exceed half the area's largest dimension. For
the chosen type.
example, 
if you affect a 40-foot square, you can
FalseAura(Object).
 You change the way thetarget
create a pillar up to 20
feet high, raiseorlower the
appears to spells and magical effects
thatdetect
square's elevation by up 
to 20feet, dig a trench up
magical auras, such as
 Detect Magic . You can make
to20feet deep, and so on. It takes
10minutes for
a nonmagical object appear 
magical, make a magic
these changes to complete. Because the terrain's
item appear nonmagical,
orchange the object's aura
transformation occurs slowly, creatures in the area
so that it appears to belong 
to a schoolofmagic you
can't usually be trapped 
or injured by the ground's
choose.
movement.
At the end of every
10minutes you spend concen-
1
trating on the spell, you can choose a new area OTILUKE
SFREEZING SPHERE
of
terrain to affect within range.Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
This spell can't manipulate natural stone 
or stone
Casting Time:
 Action
construction. Rocks and structures shift to accom-
Range: 300 feet
modate the new terrain. If the way you shape the
Components:V,S, M(aminiature crystal sphere)
terrain would make a 
structure unstable, it might
Duration: Instantaneous
collapse.
A frigid globe streaks from
 yoi; to a point 
of
Similarly, this spell doesn't directly affect plant
your choice within 
range, wh1:n
~;t explodes in a
growth. The moved earth carries any plants along
60-foot-radius Sphere. Each
 cr('.atmein that area
with it.
makes a Constitution
 saving '·hro
w, taking 10d6
Cold damage on failed
 save o:
l: .:J• as much damage
on a successful one.
CHAPTER 7
 I SPE LLS
302 

[--- Page 302 ---]
Ifthe g lc~,c s trikes abodyofwater,it freezes the
water toa de p t h of 6 inches?veranarea30feet
OTTO'SIRRESISTIBLEDANCE
square.This ice lastsfor1mmute.Creatures that
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard)
wereswimming onthe surfaceoffrozenwaterare
CastingTime: Action
trapped intheiceandh av etheRestrainedcondi-
Range:30feet
t ion. A trapped creaturecantakeanactiontomake
Components:V
a Strength(Athletics)checkagainstyourspell save
Duration: Concentration, 
up to l minute
DCtobreakfree.
Youcanrefrainfromfiringtheglobeaftercom-
One creaturethatyou can seewithin rangemust
pletingth
e s pell'scasting.Ifyoudo so, a globe about
make a Wisdom savingthrow. On a successful save,
th e size of a s
ling bullet,cooltothet ouch, appears
the target dances comically untiltheendofitsnext
in your h and.Atanytime, youoracreatureyou
turn, during which it must spend all its movement
give t he globetocanthrowtheglobe (to a rangeof
to dance in place.
40feet)orhurlitwitha sling(to the sling's normal
On a failed save, the target 
hasthe Charmed con-
range). It sh attersonimpact, wit h t hesameeffect
dition for the duration. While 
Charmed,thetarget
as anorma lcastingofthe spell. Youcanalsoset the
dances comically, must use all its movement
to
globedownwithout shatteringit.After1 minute, if
dance in place, and has Disadvantageon Dexterity
t he globehasn'talready 
shattered, it explodes.
saving throws and attack rolls, andother creatures
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot.Thedamage in-
have Advantage on attack rolls against it.Oneach
creasesbyld6foreach
spell slotlevel above 6.
of its turns, the target can take
anactiontocollect
itself and repeat the save, ending 
thespellon itself
on a success.
OTILUKE'SRESILIENTSPHERE
Level 4 A b
juration (Wizard)
PASSWALL
Casting Time: Action
Level 5 Transmutation (Wizard)
Range: 30 feet
Components:V,S , M(aglasssphere)
Casting Time: Action
Duration:Concentration, up to l minute
Range:30feet
Components:V,S,M(apinchofsesame seeds)
Ashimmering 
sphereenclosesa Largeorsmaller
Duration: l hour
creatureorobjectwithinrange. An
unwilling crea-
tu remust succeed onaDexteritysaving throw or
A passage appears 
at a pointthatyoucanseeona
be enclosed fortheduration.
wooden, plaster,orstone surface (such as a wall,
Nothing-notphysical objects, energy,orother
ceiling,orfloor) within range 
and lasts forthe dura-
spelleffects-canpass throughthe barrier, inor out,
tion. You choose the opening's dimensions: up to
5
thoughacreatureinthesphere canbr eathe there.
feet wide, 8 feet tall, and20feet deep. The passage
The
sphereisimmunetoall damage, and a creature
creates no instability in astructure surroundingit.
or object insidecan'tbe damaged
by attacks or ef-When the opening disappears, any
creaturesor
fectsoriginating fromoutside,nor
can a creatureobjects still in the passage created by the spellare
insidethe sphere damage anythingoutside it.
safely ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the
The sphereisweightless and justlarge enough to
surface on which you cast the spell.
conta inthecreature orobjectinside. An enclosed
creature can take an action to push against the
sphPASSWITHOUT TRACE
ere's wallsand thusrollthe sphere atup to half
the cre Level 2 Abjuration (Druid, Ranger)
atur e'sSpeed. Similarly, the globe can be
pickedup
an dmoved by othercreatures.
Casting Time: Action
A Disintegrate
 spell targeting the globe destroys it
Range:Self
w ithout h a r m ing anythinginside.
Components:V,S, M (ashes from burned mistletoe)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You radiate a concealing aura in a 30-foot Emana-
tion for the duration. While in the aura, you and
each creature you choose have a+10bonus to Dex-
terity (Stealth) checks and leave no tracks.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS 303

[--- Page 303 ---]
PHANTASMAL FORCE
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
You attempt to craft an illusion in the mind of
a creature you can see within range. The target
makes an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed
save, you create a phantasmal object, creature, or
other phenomenon that is no larger than a 10-foot
Cube and that is perceivable only to the target for
the duration. The phantasm includes sound, tem-
perature, and other stimuli.
The target can take a Study action to examine the
phantasm with an Intelligence (Investigation) check
against your spell save DC. If the check succeeds,
the target realizes that the phantasm is an illusion,
and the spell ends.
While affected by the spell, the target treats the
p,..,,. NTOM Sn, e:o
phantasm as if it were real and rationalizes any il-
logical outcomes from interacting with it. For exam-
ple, if the target steps through a phantasmal bridge
PHANTOM STEED
and survives the fall, it believes the bridge exists
Level 3 Illusion (Wiz ard)
and something else caused it to fall.
An affected target can even take damage from
Casting Time: l minute or Ritual
the illusion if the phantasm represents a dangerousRange: 30 feet
creature or hazard. On each of your turns, such aComponents: V, S
phantasm can deal 2d8 Psychic damage to the tar-Duration: l hour
get if it is in the phantasm's area or within 5 feet of
A Large, quasi-real, horselike creature appears on
the phantasm. The target perceives the damage as a
the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice
type appropriate to the illusion.
within range. You decide the creature's appearance,
and it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any
of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a
PHANTASMAL KILLER
puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
from the steed.
Casting Time: Action
For the duration, you or a creature you choose
Range: 120 feet
can ride the steed. The steed uses the Riding Horse
Components: V, S
stat block (see appendix B), except it has a Speed of
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
100 feet and can travel 13 miles in an hour. When
the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, giving the
You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can
rider 1 minute to dismount. The spell ends early if
see within range and create an illusion of its deepest
the steed takes any damage.
fears, visible only to that creature. The target makes
a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target
takes 4d10 Psychic damage and has Disadvantage
PLANAR ALLY
on ability checks and attack rolls for the duration.
Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric)
On a successful save, the target takes half as much
damage, and the spell ends.Casting Time: 10 minutes
For the duration, the target makes a Wisdom sav-Range: 60 feet
ing throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failedComponents: V, S
save, it takes the Psychic damage again. On a suc-Duration: Instantan eous
cessful save, the spell ends.
You beseech an otherworldl.' entity for aid. The
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
being must be known toy ,~1: a god, a demon prince,
creases by ld10 for each spell slot level above 4.
or some other being of cosmi r f0~.-,cr. T hat entity
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

[--- Page 304 ---]
sends a Celestia l, a n Elemental, or a Fiend loyal to
completion of the casting, the target must succeed
it to aid yo u. making th e creature appear in an un-
on a Charisma saving throw or be bound to serve
occupied space within r a nge. If you know a specific
you for the duration. If the creature was summoned
creature's na me, you can speak that name when
or created by another spell, that spell's duration is
you cast this spell to request that creature, though
extended to match the duration of this spell.
you might get a different creature anyway (DM's
A bound creature must follow your commands
choice).
to the best of its ability. You might command the
When the creature appears, it is under no com-
creature to accompany you on an adventure to
pulsion to behave a particular way. You can ask it
guard a location, or to deliver a message. If the
to perform a service in exchange for payment, but
creature is Hostile, it strives to twist your com-
it isn't obliged to do so. The requested task could
mands to achieve its own objectives. If the creature
range from simple (fly us across the chasm, or help
carries out your commands completely before the
us fight a battle) to complex (spy on our enemies, or
spell ends, it travels to you to report this fact if you
protect us during our foray into the dungeon). You
a:e on the same plane of existence. If you are on a
must be able to communicate w ith the creature to
d1ffere~t plane, it returns to the place where you
bargain for its services.
bound it and remains there until the spell ends.
Payment can take a variety of forms. A Celestial
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration in-
might require a sizable donation of gold or magic
creases with a spell slot of level 6 (10 days), 7 (30
items to an allied temple, while a Fiend might de-
days), 8 (180 days), and 9 (366 days).
mand a living sacrifice or a gift of treasure. Some
creatures might exchange their service for a quest
PLANE SHIFT
undertaken by you.
A task that can be measured in minutes requires
Level 7 Conjuration (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
a payment worth 100 GP per minute. A task mea-W izard)
sured in hours requires 1,000 GP per hour. And
Casting Time: Action
a task measured in days (up to 10 days) requires
Range: Touch
10,000 GP per day. The OM can adjust these pay-
Components: V, S, M (a forked, metal rod worth 250+
ments based on the circumstances under which you
GP and attuned to a plane of existence)
cast the spell. If the task is aligned with the crea-
Duration: Instantaneous
ture's ethos, the payment might be halved or even
You and up to eight willing creatures who link
waived. Nonhazardous tasks typically require only
hands in a circle are transported to a different plane
half the suggested payment, while especially dan-
of existence. You can specify a target destination in
gerous tasks might require a greater gift. Creatures
general terms, such as the City of Brass on the Ele-
rarely accept tasks that seem suicidal.
mental Plane of Fire or the palace of Dispater on the
After the creature completes the task, or when the
second level of the Nine Hells, and you appear in or
agreed-upon duration of service expires, the crea-
near that destination, as determined by the DM.
ture returns to its home plane after reporting back
Alternatively, if you know the sigil sequence of a
to you if possible. If you are unable to agree on a
teleportation circle on another plane of existence,
price for the creature's service, the creature imme-
this spell can take you to that circle. If the telepor-
diately returns to its home plane.
tation circle is too small to hold all the creatures
you transported, they appear in the closest unoccu-
pied spaces next to the circle.
PLANAR BINDING
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Warlock,
v-------------·-
Wizard)
PLANT GROWTH
Casting Time: 1 hour
Level .3 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Range: 60 feet
Casting Time: Action (Overgrowth) or
Components: V, S, M (a jewel worth 1,000+ GP, which
8 hours (Enrichment)
the spell con s umes)
Range: 150 feet
Duration: 24 hou rs
Components: V, S
You attempt to bind a Celestial, an Elemental, a
Duration: Instantaneous
Fey, or a Fiend to your service. The creature must
This spell channels vitality into plants. The casting
be within range for the entire casting of the spell.
time you use determines whether the spell has the
(Typically, the creature is first summoned into
Overgrowth or the Enrichment effect below.
the center of the inverted version of the Magic
Overgrowth. Choose a point within range. All
Circle spell to ·ap it while this spell is cast.) At the
normal plants in a 100-foot-radius Sphere centered
7 I SPELLS 305

[--- Page 305 ---]
onthat
point become thick and overgrown. A crea-
POWER WORDFORTIFY
turemoving throughthat
area must spend 4 feetof
Level 7 Enchantment 
movement for every 1 foot it moves.(Bard , C/e1·ic)
Youcan exclude
oneormore areas
ofany size within the spell's area
Casting Time:
 Action
from being affected.
Range:60feet
Enrichment. All plants in a half-mile radius cen-
Component: V
tered on a point within range become enriched for
Duration: Instantaneous
365 days. The plants yield twice the normal 
amount
You fortify up to sixcreatures
you canseewithin
offood when harvested. They can benefit from only
range. The spell 
bestows120TemporaryHitPoints,
one Plant Growth
 per year.
which you divideamong 
thespell's recipients.
POISON
SPRAY
POWERWORD
HEAL
Necromancy Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Level 9 Enchantment(Bar·d,Cleric)
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Casting Time: Action
Range:
 60 feet
Range: 30 feet
Component: V
Components:V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Duration: Instantaneous
You spray toxic mist at a A waveofhealing
creature within range.energy washes over onecreature
Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On ayou can seewithinrange.The target
regainsall its
hit, the target takes ld12 Poison damage.Hit Points.Ifthecreature
has the Charmed,Fright-
Cantrip Upgrade. ened, Paralyzed, Poisoned,
The damage increases by ld12or Stunnedcondition,
when you reach levels 5 (2d12),
11(3d12), and17the condition ends.Ifthe
creaturehasthe Prone
(4dl2).condition, it 
can use its Reactiontostandup.
-
POLYMORPH
POWER 
WORDKILL
Level 4 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Casting Time: Action
Range:
 60 feet
Range: 60 feet
Components:V,S,M(acaterpillar cocoon)
Component:
 V
Duration:
 Concentration, up to l hour
Duration: Instantaneous
You attempt to transform a creature 
that you canYou compel one
creatureyoucanseewithin
range
see within range into a Beast. The target must suc-
to die. If the target 
has100Hit Pointsorfewer, it
ceed on a Wisdom saving
throw orshape-shift into
dies. Otherwise, it takes 12d12 Psychic 
damage.
a Beast form for the duration. That form can be any
Beast you choose that has a Challenge Rating equal
to or less than 
the target's (or the target's level ifPOWER WORDSTUN
it doesn't have a Challenge Rating). The target's
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
game statistics are replaced by 
the stat block of the
Casting Time: Action
chosen Beast, but the target retains its alignment,
Range: 60 feet
personality, creature type, Hit Points, and Hit Point
Components:
 V
Dice. See appendix B for a sample 
of Beast stat
Duration: Instantaneous
blocks.
You overwhelm the mind
The target gains a number of Temporary Hitof onecreature you can
see within range. If 
Points equal to the Hit Points of the Beast form . Thethe targe t has 150 Hit Pointsor
fewer, it has the Stunned 
spell ends early on condition. Otherwise, its
the target if it has no Temporary
Speed is O
Hit Points left. until the start of your next turn.
The Stunned target 
makes a Constitution saving
The target is limited in the actions it can perform
throw 
at the end of each of its t uriis, ending the
by the anatomy of its new form, and it can't speak
condition on itself on a succes
s.
or cast spells.
The target's gear melds into the new form. The
creature can't use or otherwise benefit from any of
that equipment.
306 CHAPTER 7 
I SPELLS

[--- Page 306 ---]
PRAYER or-HEALIN G
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
CastingTime: 10minutes
Range: 30 feet
components:V
Duration:In st antaneous
of yourchoice who remain
Upto five cr eatures 
spell'sentire casting gain the
within range forthe
benefits of aShortRestand also regain 2d8 Hit
by this spell
Points. A creaturecan'tbe affected 
againuntilthatcreature fin ishes a Long Rest.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
eachspell slot level above 2.
creasesby ld8fo r
PRESTIDIGITATION
Transmuta tionCantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock,
Wizard)
Casting Time:Acti on
A O WIIRFH/10/I NUNFORTUNIIT EENCOUNTER
Range: l Ofeet
WITHTHEINDIGORIIVOFPRISM/ITIC5PRIIY.
Components: V, S
Up tolhour
Duration :
RAYS
PRISMATIC
withinrange. Choose
Youcreatea magical effect
ld8Ray
theopt ions below. If you cast this
the effectfrom 
FailedSave:12d6Firedamage. Successful
Red.
spell multiple times,you canhave up to three of its
Save:Halfas muchdamage.
at a time.
non-instantaneouseffects active 
 Youcreateaninstantaneous,
Sensory Effect.Suc-
2 Orange.Failed Save:12d6Acid damage.
ks,
harmlesssensoryeffect,suchas a shower of spar
as muchdamage.
cessful Save:Half
oran odd odor.
a puffofwind, faint musical notes,
Lightningdamage.
3Yellow.FailedSave:12d6 
lightorsnuff out a
Fire Play. Youinstantaneously
: Half as muchdamage.
Successful Save
ora small campfire.
candle, atorch,
Save:12d6Poison damage.Suc-
4 Green.Failed
Clean or Soil. You instantaneously clean or soil an
Save:Halfas much damage.
cessful
object nolargerthan1 cubic foot.
,orflavor up to 1
Minor Sensation. You chill,warm
Colddamage.Success-
5Blue.FailedSave:12d6 
 1 hour.
cubic footofnonliving material for
Save:Half as muchdamage.
ful
make a color, a small mark, or a
Magic Mark. You 
target has theRe-
6 Indigo.FailedSave:The
ora surface for 1 hour.
symbolappear on anobject
strained condition and makes a Constitution
a nonmagical trinket
Minor Creation. You create 
of its turns.If
saving throw at the end of each 
can fit in your hand. It
or an illusory imagethat
itsuccessfully saves three times, the condition
A trinket can
lasts until the endof yournext turn. 
ends.If itfailsthree times,ithas the Petrified
worth.
deal no dam ageand has no monetary 
the
conditionuntil itisfreedbyan effectlike
 spell. The successes and
Greater Restoration
PRISMATICSPRAY
beconsecutive; keep track of
failures needn't
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
kind.
both untilthe target collects three of a 
Casting Time: Action
7Violet. FailedSa11e:The target has the Blinded
Range: Self
condition and makes a Wisdom saving throw
 V, S
Components:
the start of your next turn. On a successful
at 
Duration: Instanta neous
save, the condition ends. On a failed save, the
Eight rays of light flash from you in a 60-foot Cone.condition ends, and the creature teleports to
LJr e in the Cone makes a Dexterity saving
Each creatanother plane of existence (DM's choice).
throw. For -:a •:·h target, roll ld8 to determine which
8 Special. The target is struck by two rays. Roll
 affects it, consulting the Prismatic Rays
color ray
any 8.
twice, rerolling 
table.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS 30 '7

[--- Page 307 ---]
PRISMATIC LAYERS
Order Effects
PR I SMATIC WAL L
Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire dam age. Success-
Level 9 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard)
ful Save: Half as much damage. Additional
Casting Time: Action
Effects : Nonmagical ranged attacks can't
Range: 60 feet
pass through this layer, which is destroyed if
Components: V, S
it takes at least 25 Cold damage .
Duration: 10 minutes
2 Orange. Failed Sav e: 12d6 Acid damage .
A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Ad-
a vertical opaque wall-up to 90 feet long, 30 feet
high, and 1 inch thick-centered on a point w ithinditional Effects: Magical ranged attacks can 't
range. Alternatively, you shape the wall into a globe
pass through th is layer, wh ich is destroyed
up to 30 feet in diameter centered on a point with in
by a strong wind (such as the one created by
range. The wall lasts for the duration. If you posi-
Gust of Wind) .
tion the wall in a space occupied by a creature, the
3 Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage.
spell ends instantly without effect.
Successful Save: Half as much damage. Addi-
The wall sheds Bright Light within 100 feet and
tional Effects: The layer is destroyed if it takes
Dim Light for an additional 100 feet. You and crea-
at least 60 Force damage.
tur es you designate when you cast the spell can
pass through and be near the wall without harm. If
4 Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage .
another creature that can see the wall moves within
Su ccessful Save: Half as m uch damage . Ad-
20 feet of it or starts its turn there, the creature
ditional Effects: A Passwa/1 spell , or another
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or
spell of equal or greater level that can open a
have the Blinded condition fo r 1 minute.
portal o n a solid surface, des t roys this layer.
The wall consists of seven layers, each with a
5 Blue. Failed Save: 12d6 Cold damage. Suc-
different color. When a creature reaches into or
cessful Save: Half as much damage . Addi-
passes through the waJl, it does so one layer at a
time through all the layers. Each layer forces t hetional Effect s: The layer is destroyed if it takes
creature to make a Dexterity saving t hrow or be af-
at least 25 Fire damage.
fected by that layer's proper ties as described in the
6 Indigo. Failed Save: The target has t he Re-
Prismatic Layers table.
strained condition a nd m akes a Constitu -
The wall, which has AC 10, can be destroyed one
tion saving throw at the end of each of its
layer at a time, in order from red to violet, by means
turns . If it success fu lly saves three ti mes ,
specific to each layer. If a layer is destroyed, it is
the condi ti on ends . If it fa ils t hree times , it
gone for the duration. Antimagic Field has no effect
has t he Petrified cond ition until it is freed by
on t he wall, and Dispel Magic can affect only the vio-
an effect like th e Greater Rest oration spe ll.
let layer.
The successes and fa ilures needn 't be con-
secutive; keep trac k of bot h until t he target
PRODUCE FLAME
collects t hree of a kin d . Additional Effects:
Conjuration Cantrip (Druid)
Spe ll s can 't be cast th rough this layer, which
Casting Time: Bonus Action
is dest royed by Bright Lig ht shed by the Day-
Range: Self
light s pe ll.
Components: V, S
7 Violet. Failed Save: The t a rget has the
Duration: 10 minutes
Bli nded co nditio n and makes a Wisdom sav-
A flickering flame appears in your hand and remains
in g throw at the start of your next turn. On
there for the duration. While there, the flame emits
a successful save, the co nd itio n ends. On a
no heat and ignites nothing, and it sheds Bright
failed save, th e cond ition ends, a nd t he crea-
Light in a 2O-foot radius and Dim Light for an addi-
ture telepo rts to another plane of existence
tional 20 feet. The spell ends if you cast it again.
(DM's choice) . Additinnol Effects: This layer
Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action
is destroyed by Disp el tv1ae,ic.
to hurl fire at a creature or an object within 60 feet
of you. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the tar-
get takes 1d8 Fire damage.
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld8
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).
308 CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

[--- Page 308 ---]
PROJECT IMAGE
A S f' E LL C. /\S T E R C. O ULO U SE
Level 7 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
PRO GRAMM ED J L tUSIO N TO C/\USE /\
w/\TC.H 0O G T O A P PE/\ R /\NO K INDLY
Casting Time: Action
/IS K I N TR U D E R S TO LE/\ VE .
Range: 500 miles
Components: V, S, M (a statuette of yourself worth
5+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to l day
You create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for
the duration. The copy can appear at any location
within range that you have seen before, regardless
of intervening obstacles. The illusion looks and
sounds like you, but it is intangible. If the illusion
takes any damage, it disappears, and the spell ends.
You can see through the illusion's eyes and hear
through its ears as if you were in its space. As a
Magic action, you can move it up to 60 feet and
make it gesture, speak, and behave in whatever way
you choose. It mimics your mannerisms perfectly.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be
._,.. __ _
--
illusory, since things can pass through it. A creature
that takes the Study action to examine the image
PROGRAM MED I L LUSION
can determine that it is an illusion with a successful
Level 6 Jllusion (Bard, Wizard)
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell
Casting Time: Action
save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for what
Range: 120 feet
it is, the creature can see through the image, and
Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 25+ GP)
any noise it makes sounds hollow to the creature.
Duration: Until dispelled
You create an illusion of an object, a creature, or
PROTECTION FROM ENERGY
some other visible phenomenon within range that
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer,
activates when a specific trigger occurs. The illusion
Wizard)
is imperceptible until then. It must be no larger than
a 30-foot Cube, and you decide when you cast theCasting Time: Action
spell how the illusion behaves and what sounds itRange:Touch
makes. This scripted performance can last up to 5Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
minutes.
When the trigger you specify occurs, the illusion
For the duration, the willing creature you touch has
springs into existence and performs in the manner
Resistance to one damage type of your choice: Acid,
you described. Once the illusion finishes perform-
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder.
ing, it disappears and remains dormant for 10 min-
utes, after which the illusion can be activated again.
The trigger can be as general or as detailed as you
PROTECTION FROM EVIL A ND Goon
like, though it must be based on visual or audible
Level 1Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Warlock,
phenomena that occur within 30 feet of the area.
Wizard)
For example, you could create an illusion of yourself
Casting Time: Action
to appear and wa rn off others who attempt to open
Range:Touch
a trapped doo r.
Components: V, S, M (a flask of Holy Water worth 25+
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be
GP, which the spell consumes)
illusory, since things can pass through it. A creature
Duration: Concentration up to 10 minutes
that takes the Study action to examine the image
can determine tha t it is an illusion with a successful
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell
is protected against creatures that are Aberrations,
save DC. If a creat ure discerns the illusion for what
Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or Undead.
,.
it is, the creature can see through the image, and
The protection grants several benefits. Creatures
e
any noise it: ma kes sounds hollow to the creature.
of those types have Disadvantage on attack rolls
..:
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS 309

[--- Page 309 ---]
against the target. The target also can't be pos-
sessed by or gain the Charmed or Frightened condi-
RAISE DEAD
tions from them. If the target is already possessed,
Level 5 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Paladin)
Charmed, or Frightened by such a creature, the tar-
Casting Time: l hour
get has Advantage on any new saving throw against
Range:Touch
the relevant effect.
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 500+ GP,
. - ---------------:;;.=--
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
PROTECTION FROM POISON
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
With a touch, you revive a dead creature if it has
been dead no longer than 10 days and it wasn't Un-
Casting Time: Action
dead when it died.
Range:Touch
The creature returns to life with 1 Hit Point. This
Components: V, S
spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected the
Duration: l hour
creature at the time of death.
You touch a creature and end the Poisoned condi-
This spell closes all mortal wounds, but it doesn't
tion on it. For the duration, the target has Advan-
restore missing body parts. If the creature is lacking
tage on saving throws to avoid or end the Poisoned
body parts or organs integral for its survival-its
condition, and it has Resistance to Poison damage.
head, for instance-the spell automatically fails.
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The tar-
get takes a - 4 penalty to D20 Tests. Every time the
PURIFY FOOD AND D RINK
target finishes a Long Res t, the penalty is reduced
Level 1Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Paladin)
by 1 until it becomes 0.
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You remove poison and rot from nonmagical food
and drink in a 5-foot-radius Sphere centered on a
point within range.
110 CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS

[--- Page 310 ---]
:;.--
RARY'S T l:: L E PATH IC B?ND
RAY OF SICKNESS
Level 5 Divinatio n (Bard, Wizard)
Level 1 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S , M (two eggs)
Components: V, S
Duration: l hour
Duration: Instantaneous
You forge a telepathic link among up to eight willing
You shoot a greenish ray at a creature within range.
creatures of your choice wit hin range, psychically
Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a
linking each creature to all the others for the dura-
hit, the target takes 2d8 Poison damage and has the
tion. Creatures that can't communicate in any lan-
Poisoned condition until the end of your next turn.
uages aren't affected by this spell.
Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in-
g Until the spell ends, the targets can communicate
creases by ld8 for each spell slot level above 1.
telepathically through the bond whether or not they
share a language. The communication is possible
over any distance, though it can't extend to otherREGENERATE
planes of existence.
Level 7 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: l minute
r-:-· --·
Range:Touch
R AY OF ENFEEBLEMENT
Components: V, S, M (a prayer wheel)
Level 2 Necromancy (Warlock, Wizard)
Duration: l hour
casting Time: Action
A creature you touch regains 4d8 + 15 Hit Points.
Range: 60 feet
For the duration, the target regains 1 Hit Point at
Components: V, S
the start of each of its turns, and any severed body
Duration: Concentration, up to l minute
parts regrow after 2 minutes.
A beam of enervating energy shoots from you
toward a creature within range. The target must
REINCARNATE
make a Constitution saving throw. On a successful
save, the target has Disadvantage on the next attackLevel 5 Necromancy (Druid)
roll it makes until the start of your next turn.
Casting Time: l hour
On a failed save, the target has Disadvantage on
Range:Touch
Strength-based D20 Tests for the duration. During
Components: V, S, M (rare oils worth 1,000+ GP,
that time, it also subtracts ld8 from all its damage
which the spell consumes)
rolls. The target repeats the save at the end of each
Duration: Instantaneous
of its turns, ending the spell on a success.
You touch a dead Humanoid or a piece of one. If
the creature has been dead no longer than 10 days,
the spell forms a new body for it and calls the soul
RAY O F FROST
to enter that body. Roll ldlO and consult the table
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
below to determine the body's species, or the OM
Casting Time: Action
chooses another playable species.
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
ldlO ldlO Species
Species 
Duration: In stantaneous
l Aasimar 6 Goliath
A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a
Dragonborn 7 Halfling
2 
creature with in ra nge. Make a ranged spell attack
3 Dwarf 8 Human
against the target. On a hit, it takes ld8 Cold dam-
Ore
4 Elf 9 
age, and its Speed is reduced by 10 feet until the
start of your next tu r n.
5 Gnome 10 Tiefling
Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by ld8
The reincarnated creature makes any choices that
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 (4d8).
a species' description offers, and the creature recalls
its former life. It retains the capabilities it had in its
original form, except it loses the traits of its previ-
ous species and gains the traits of its new one.
CHAPTER 7 I SPELLS 311

[--- Page 311 ---]
REVERSE GRAVITY
REMOVECURSE
Level 7 Transmuta tion (Druid, S01-cerer,Wizard)
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time:
Action
Casting Time: Action
Range: 100 feet
Range:Touch
Components: V, S, M(alodes tone and ironfilings)
Components:V,S
Duration: Concentration , up to l minute
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell reversesgravityin a SO-foot-radius, 100-
At your touch, all curses affecting one creature
foot high Cylinder centered on apointw ithin range.
orobject end. If the object
isa cursed magic item,
All creatures and objects in
that areathataren't
its curse remains, but the spell breaks its owner's
anchored to thegroundfallupward andreach the
Attunement to the object so it can be removedor
topofthe Cylinder. Acreature 
canmake a Dexter-
discarded.
ity savingthrowto grab a fixed object itcanreach,
thus avoiding the fallupward.
RESISTANCEIf a ceiling
or an anchored object isencountered
Abjuration Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)in this upward fall,creatures andobjects strike it
justas they would during adownwardfall.If anaf-
Casting Time: Action
fected creatureorobject reachestheCylinder
's top
Range:Touch
without striking anything, it hoverstherefor the
Component: V, S
duration.Whenthe spell ends, affected objects and
Duration:
 Concentration, up to 1 minute
creatures fall downward.
Youtouch a willing creature and choose a damage
type: Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Lightning,
Ne-
crotic, Piercing, Poison, Radiant, Slashing, or Thun-
REVIVIFY
der.When the creature takes damage of the chosen
Level 3 Necromancy(Cleric, Druid, Paladin , Ranger)
type before the spell ends, the creature reduces the
Casting Time: Action
total damage taken by ld4. A creature can benefit
Range:Touch
from this spell only once per turn.
Components:V,S,M(adiamond worth 300+GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
RESURRECTION
Level 7 Necromancy(Bard, Cleric)
You touch a creaturethathas diedwithin thelast
minute. That creature reviveswith1 Hit Point. This
Casting Time: 1 hour
spell can't revive a creaturethathas diedofold age,
Range:Touch
nor does it restore any missing bodyparts.
Components:V,S, M(adiamond worth 1,000+GP,
which the spell consumes)
Duration:
 Instantaneous
ROPETRICK
With a touch, you revive a dead creature that has
Level 2 Transmutation (Wizard)
been dead for no more than a century, didn't die of
Casting Time: Action
old age, and wasn't Undead when it died.
Range:Touch
The creature returns to life with all its Hit Points.
Components: V, S, M(asegment of rope)
This spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected
Duration: l hour
the creature at the time 
of death. This spell closes
all mortal wounds and restores any missing body
You touch a rope. One endofit hovers upward until
parts.
the rope hangs perpendicular to the ground orthe
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The tar-rope reaches a ceiling. At 
the rope's upper end, an
get takes a -4 penalty to
 D20 Tests. Every time theInvisible 3-foot-by-5-foot portal opens to an extra-
target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced
dimensional space that lasts unt il t he spell ends.
by 1 until it becomes 0.That space can be reached by climbing the rope,
Casting this spell to revive a creature which can be pulled into or dropped 
that hasout of it.
been dead for 365 days or longer taxes you. UntilThe space can hold up to eight Medium or smaller
you finish a Long Rest, you can't cast spells again,creatures. Attacks, spells, and1)th{'r effects can't
pass into or out 
and you have Disadvantage on D20 Tests.of the space, but c1·e2tures inside
it can see through the po
rtal. An ytn ing inside the
space drops out when the!>1Y' ll (»-,:l.;.

[--- Page 312 ---]
SACREDFLAME
SCORCHING RAY
Evocation Cantrip (Cleric)
Level2Evocation(Sorcerer,Wizard)
Casting Time: ActionTime: Action
Casting
Range:60 feetRange: 120feet
V,S
Components:Components:V,S
Instantaneous
Duration:Duration: Instantaneous
Flame-likeradiance descends onacreature that you
Youhurl three fiery rays.Youcan hurl them at one
can seewithin range. The target must succeed on
target within range or at several. Make a ranged
saving throw ortake ld8Radiant dam-
a Dexterityspell attack for each ray. On a hit, the target takes
Half Cover or
age. Thetarget gains no benefit from 2d6 Fire damage.
save.
Three-Quarters Cover for this Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create one ad-
Cantrip Upgrade.The damage increases by ld8ditional ray for each spell slot level above 2.
when youreachlevels 5 (2d8),11(3d8), and17(4d8).
SCRYING
SANCTUARYLevel5 Divination(Bard, Cleric,Druid, Warlock,
Wizard)
Level 1Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus ActionCasting Time:10minutes
Range:Self
Range:30 feet
V,S,M(afocus worth 1,000+GP,such
Components:V,S, M(ashard of glass from a mirror)Components:
as a crystal ball, mirror, or water-filled font)
Duration: 1 min ute
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Youward acreatu re within range. Until the spell
t:-1re who targets the warded creatureYou can see and hear a creature you choose that is
ends, any crea
with an attack ro llor a damaging spell must succeedon the same plane of existence as you. The target
either choose a newmakes a Wisdom saving throw, which is modified
on a Wisdom s, ,ring throw or 
 ttack or spell. This spell doesn't(see the tables below) by how well you know the
target or lose t,1..
target and the sort of physical connection you have
protect the w ~ ·d d creature from areas of effect.
The spell ends :{ !·he warded creature makes an at-
tack roll, cast s :1 spell, or deals damage.
CHAPTER 7 I SPE LLS

[--- Page 313 ---]
to it. The target doesn't know what it
ismaking the
save against, onlythatit feels uneasy.SEEMING
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, So,·cerer,
Wizard)
SaveModifier
YourKnowledge
ofthe TargetIs...
Casting Time:
 Action
Secondhand (heard+5
ofthe target)
Range: 30 feet
Firsthand (met the target)
+0
Components:V,S
Duration: 8 hours
Extensive (know the targetwell)
-5
You give an illusoryappearance 
to eachcreatureof
You
Have the Target's ...Save
Modifier
yourchoicethat
youcanseewithinrange. An un-
Picture or other likeness
-2
willing
target can make aCharisma saving
throw,
Garment or other possessionand if it succeeds, it is unaffected
by thisspell.
-4
You can givethe 
sameappearanceordifferent
Bodypart,lockof
hair, or bit ofnail-10
ones to thetargets.Thespellcanchange 
theap-
On a successful save, the target isn't affected, and
pearance
ofthe targets' bodiesandequipment. 
You
you can't use this spell on it again for
 24 hours.can make eachcreatureseem 1 foot
shorterortaller
On a failed save, the spell creates an Invisible,
and appear heavier
orlighter. Atarget's newap-
intangible sensor within 10 feetof the 
target.Youpearance must have 
the same basicarrangement of
can see and hear through 
the sensor as if you werelimbs as the target,
but the extentofthe
illusion is
there. The sensor moves with the target, remaining
otherwise up 
to you.Thespell lasts fortheduration.
within 10
 feetofit for the duration. If something
The changeswrought
by this spell fail to hold up
can see the sensor, it appears as a luminous orb
to physical inspection. For example,
ifyou use this
about the sizeof your
fist.spell to add a
hatto acreature'soutfit, objects pass
Insteadoftargeting a creature, you can 
target athrough
the hat.
location you have seen.
Whenyou do so, the sensor
Acreaturethattakes
the Study action toexamine
appears atthat
location and doesn't move.
a target can make an Intelligence (Investigation)
check against
yourspell save DC.Ifit succeeds, it
becomes 
awarethat the targetis disguised.
SEARING
SMITE
Level1 Evocation (Paladin)
SENDING
Casting Time:
 Bonus Action , whichyoutake immedi-
Level 3 Divination
 (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or
an Unarmed Strike
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Range:Unlimited
Component: V
Components:V,S,M(acopper wire)
Duration: l minute
Duration: Instantaneous
As you hit the target, it takes an extra ld6 Fire dam-
You send ashortmessage
of25 wordsorfewer to
age from the attack. At the
start of eachofitsturns
a creature you have 
met or acreaturedescribed to
until the spell ends, the target takes ld6 Fire dam-
you by someone 
who has met it. The target hears
age and then makes a Constitution saving throw.
the message in its mind, recognizes 
you 
asthe
On a failed save, the spell continues. On a successful
sender if it knows you, and can 
answer in a like
save, the spell ends.
manner immediately. 
The spell enables targets to
Usinga Higher-Level Spell Slot.
 All the damage in-
understand the meaning of yourmessage.
creases by ld6 for each spell slot level above
1.You can send the message across 
any distance and
even to other 
planes of existence,but if the target
is on a different plane than you, there 
is a 5 percent
SEE I NVI SIBILITY
chance that the message doesn't
arrive. You know if
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
the delivery fails.
Upon receiving 
your message, a creature can
Casting Time:
 Action
block your ability to reach it agai n
 w ith this spell
Range: 
Self
for 8 hours. If you t 
ry to send 3nr,~her message
Components:
V,S, M(apinch of talc)
during that time, you learn th.at
•rou are blocked,
Duration: l hour
and the spell fails.
For the duration, you see creatures and objects that
have the Invisible condition as if they were visible,
and you can see into the Ethereal Plane. Creatures
and objects there appear ghostly.

[--- Page 314 ---]
SEQUESTER
SHAPECHANGE
Level 7 Transmutation (Wizard)
Level 9Transmutation(Druid,Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
CastingTime:Action
Range:Touch
Range:Self
Components: V, S, M (gem dust worth 5,000+GP,
Components:V,S,M(ajade circlet worth 1,500+GP)
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration,
upto l hour
Duration: Until dispelled
Youshape-shift into another creature for the dura-
With a touch,youmagically sequester an object or a
tion or until you take a Magic action to shape-shift
willingcreature. For theduration, the target has the
into a different eligible form. The new form must be
Invisible condition and can't be targeted 
by Divina-of a creature that has a Challenge Rating no higher
tion spells,
detected by magic,orviewed remotelythan your level or Challenge Rating. 
You must have
with magic.seen the sort of creature before, and it can't
 be a
If thetargetis acreature, it enters a state of sus-
Construct or an Undead.
pendedanimation; it has theUnconscious condition,
When you shape-shift, you gain a number of
doesn't age,
and doesn't need food, water, or air.Temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points of the
You can set a condition for the spell to end early.form. The spell ends early if you have no Temporary
The condition can 
be anythingyou choose, but itHit Points left.
must occurorbe visible within 1 mile of the target.Your game statistics are replaced by the stat block
Examples include "after 1,000 years" 
or "when theof the chosen form, but you retain your creature
tarrasque awa kens."This spell also ends if the tar-type; alignment; personality; Intelligence, Wisdom,
get takes any damagand Charisma scores; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice;
e.
proficiencies; and ability to communicate. If you
have the Spellcasting feature, you retain it too.
Upon shape-shifting, you determine whether your
equipment drops to the ground or changes in size
and shape to fit the new form while you're in it.
OHAPTBll
 7 I SPELLS

